The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                  The First

                  Trading Manual
                  Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             1
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Thank you for
         downloading this eBook
         My name is Tom Hougaard. I am a trader by profession, and this
         eBook is written for people who want to trade for a living.

         By trading for a living, I mean people who want to make the financial
         markets their workplace. I mean people who take their monthly wages
         from the profits of their brokerage accounts.

         It is probably not where you are right now. Otherwise, why would you
         read this book? Even if you have some trading experience, the odds
         are high that you are not profitable, or you are not as profitable as
         you know you can be. If this is the case, then this book will not let
         you down.




                                                             2
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                  Contents

                     14         The 24-Hour Trading Cycle


                     25         Basic Technical Analysis


                     34         Price Action & Price Behaviour


                     55         Principles of Price Action & Trend


                     67         Trend Indicators


                     72         Daily Work Routine


                     75         Candlestick Charting


                     80         The Essential 8 Candle Patterns


                    111         Understanding Chart Time Frames




                                                             3
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                    115        Trade Entry Technique 4 Bar Fractal


                    119        Divergence Strategies


                    127        Managing Your Risk


                    134        Forex Markets & Forex Trading


                    138        Basic Facts of the Forex Market


                    144        Practical Forex Trading Terminology


                    146        Quick Guide to Spread Betting / Trading


                    150        What Makes Markets Move?


                    156        Case Stories & New Entry Techniques


                    161        Trading Psychology




                                                             4
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         I know it is a free book, and as the saying goes: “You get what you pay for”. I give
         you my word that this book is not a sales pitch for something I sell. I stake my
         name on it.

         The question you may ask yourself is why you should learn from me? I think that is
         a fair question.

         Well, for starters, I make money trading. This instantly puts me in the top 20%,
         according to the brokerages themselves.

         You see, these days the brokers have to reveal how many of their clients are making
         money and how many are losing money. They even have to do it on their adverts.


         This brokerage states that 76% of their clients are unprofitable.




         One brokerage I know of is owned by the biggest educational provider for trading
         seminars. I could not help but smile to myself when I read that 79% of their clients
         are unprofitable. Their clients are people who have attended their seminars. You
         have to wonder if their seminars are any good? Would you not expect a higher win
         percentage if you spent £3,000 on your education?

         Of course, these percentages won’t make a blind bit of difference to people who
         want to trade, anymore than the horrible images you see on the cigarette packages
         nowadays will stop people from smoking.




                                                             5
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Why am I Different?
         I can offer you several reasons.


                       I have traded in an annual competition since 2014 and my results are
            1          audited. One year I took an account from £25,000 to nearly £1m. Other
                       years were less spectacular, but no year had less than a 100% return.
                       There were no losing years.

                       Two journalists have written a book about day-traders, where I was
            2          interviewed. The pair had access to my trading statements for the year,
                       verifying it was real money I was trading.

                       I have run live trading rooms where my trading was under scrutiny every
            3          day for years. These days I run a free group in an App called Telegram. I
                       trade live here almost every day. It is an invitation-only group, and in there
                       I keep myself accountable by posting some of my trades, in real-time.

                       I have not only traded for myself for years. I have also worked at a
            4          brokerage for many years. I have seen how people trade. I have seen
                       what mistakes they are making – over and over.


         I am very good at what I do, but if you compare me to the rest, it doesn’t mean a lot,
         does it? If 80% lose, then the competition isn’t very hard to beat. I could stop trading
         and still beat 80% of people.So I am in the 20% group, but that by itself means very
         little. Don’t be fooled, my friend. There is a big leap from making occasional money
         trading to making a living from trading. Even if you belong to the group of people
         who are making money or are breaking even, the people who truly make a living
         from trading is not the 20%. It is the 1%.




                                                             6
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Talent or Ability?
         Are you good at something? How did you get good at it?
         Did it just miraculously happen, or did you have to work at it?


         Here is what I believe is true about my trading abilities:


                       I am a great trader because I have worked focused and intensely to
            1          become one. I have always been good with numbers, but what does that
                       have to do with good trading? Buy a calculator, if you are not good with
                       numbers. It isn’t my arithmatic abilities that makes me a good trader.

                       I never found the “holy grail”, although I admit I did look for it. I stopped
            2          looking when I finally realised it didn’t exist. I declare I am not profitable
                       because I have found some amazing secret to trading.

                       I am able to talk about technical analysis for days on end, even weeks if
            3          I want to, but that is not what makes me profitable. Yes, my knowledge
                       on technical trading helps, but I know for certain that it doesn’t make me
                       or anyone else profitable.


         So to conclude, I am not talented. I am trained. I work from a structure. So once,
         again, what is this e-book all about? The answer is that it is a PLAYBOOK. It is
         designed to give you a plan and a structure to work from.




                                                             7
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         What is a Playbook?
         A framework to guide you to a successful outcome.


         You will need to start somewhere, and you can consider this book a great place to
         start. What you will learn is better than the material you will be presented with at
         those expensive weekend courses, you have probably seen and heard about. There
         you pay £3000 to be taught the basics of trading. You are much better off reading
         this book, and put £3000 into a trading account and begin trading. You will learn a
         lot more from your own experiences than from a weekend course.




        What Will You Learn in My Playbook?

                       Market                                Instrument                Technical
                       Knowledge                             Knowledge                 Knowledge



                                          Strategy
                                                                          Psychology
                                          Knowledge




                                                             8
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Market Knowledge


         I will take you through the markets and what they each mean. You will be surprised
         to learn how many different markets you can trade. You don’t have to worry about
         which one you want to trade yet. We will cover that later.


         Instrument Knowledge


         You need to execute your trades somehow. There are several ways you can execute
         trades in the market. You need to know your options to discover what suits you.


         Technical Knowledge


         Once you know what markets you want to trade, and how you are going to execute
         the trades, you need to learn about how to decide if you want to buy or sell short the
         market. I call this technical knowledge. You need to build a foundation of technical
         knowledge for you to progress to the next step.




                                                             9
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Psychology


         Once you start placing trades, you will quickly realise that trading is much more
         than just studying charts and knowing about technical analysis. I argue, and
         many experienced traders will agree with me, that trading is 10% technique and
         90% psychology. I have concluded this book with material from another book
         I am writing. The topic of the book is trading psychology. Here I draw from my
         experiences as a broker, an educator and above all a trader. It should be published
         by October 2018.



         Strategy Knowledge


         Building a technical knowledge will enable you to devise your own trading
         strategies. This e-book contains plenty of strategies. You may want to adopt them,
         or you may want to use them to build your own strategies.

         You also need to practice. The practice segment comes in two parts. Trading is
         simple. You buy, you sell, or you do nothing. The practice part can simply mean
         you start off on a demo account for a few days just to learn the ins and outs of the
         trading platform you have decided to trade on. You learn how to place trades, how
         to place orders, and how to navigate the platform.

         The second part of practice is in the form of REAL trading. There you will start to
         trade with real money, and you will begin to develop your skillset. It will take time,
         but the Playbook will guide you.




                                                             10
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Knowing the Truth
         I have to warn you.

         This is not an easy profession. The money is good, but the path to success is going
         to challenge you in ways you never imagined. The pursuit of wealth and financial
         freedom through speculation can be costly, both financially
         and spiritually.

         Unlike what the glossy adverts in the newspapers, and the financial magazines and
         the unsolicited emails suggest, it takes time and effort to
         get to the point where you can call yourself a profitable trader.

         It is a worthwhile pursuit, but many fall by the wayside. They give up too soon, or
         they put their faith in an educational guru, who overcharge and deliver under.

         I wrote this book for you. It doesn’t reveal all that I know about trading,
         but it reveals all you need to know to get off to a good start.

         I have studied thousands of hours, and my research has taken many paths. Some of
         it has been useful. Some of it has been worthless. This book is designed to get you
         started on the right path.

         The course spans many lessons. It is designed to rival and surpass the £3000
         weekend courses offered by the training companies around the globe, and it does.
         I have chosen to pass this information to you for free. If you can read through this
         manual, and still think this is a great profession, then you are already halfway there.

         I do run courses, so I could be accused of being a hypocrite. After all, those
         who can, they do, and those who can’t, they teach. It is not that simple. You see,
         whatever you think about trading right now, is unlikely to be what you will think
         about trading in a year from now or 10 years from now.




                                                             11
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Many years ago it sent shivers down my spine just hearing the word “trader”. Then
         I got hired to trade, and a new reality emerged. Beneath the glamour of a great
         sounding work title lies thousands of hours of merciless beatings by a market that
         just doesn’t care about you or how you feel or think or what you want. So for me
         to be able to pass on my wisdom to you and people like you gives me a sense of
         purpose beyond just trading the markets. I realised a long time ago that aside from
         my love for trading I also love to teach. I hope this love shines through in the pages
         to follow.

         I run courses on trading, but I just don’t want to teach the basic technical analysis
         stuff. No one should charge for that. This book will get you to a point where you are
         ready to trade, and where you can expect to begin to make money from trading.

         It might not be a lot to begin with, but it is not about making money at first. It is
         about getting the techniques and, more importantly, the process down to a fine art.
         After that the money will just come. I hope your path will be a profitable one, and
         enable you to live the life you dream of.



         If you have questions for me, then please email me at


         tom@tradertom.com
         Many thanks,
         Tom
         London 18-08-2018




                                                             12
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         DISCLAIMER
         The trading of stocks, futures, options, spread betting, spread trading
         and CFD trading and any other leveraged trading activity involves risk.

         It should not be assumed that the methods in this trading book, the
         techniques explained within or the technical settings presented here
         will be profitable. Trading is a risky proposition, one which has the
         ability to elevate lives financially as well as destroy a sound economic
         foundation. Please be as prepared and as cautious as you would be,
         if you were planning a trip into an unknown landscape.

         I wrote this book with the intention of guiding both the absolute
         beginner and the more experienced trader and investor through the
         financial markets.

         However, I do not guarantee that the results of the past imply or
         forecast the results of future endeavours. You should not trade with
         money you can’t afford to lose.




                                                             13
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The 24-Hour Trading Cycle
         I want to kick off this book by explaining to you what the 24-hour trading cycle is.
         In fact, I think we should go through a full week, so you get an idea of what is what.
         We will focus on 4 markets and their place in the market rhythm over the course of
         a trading week.



            1         Individual Stocks                           3   Currencies


            2         Stock Indices                               4   Commodities


         The markets are not linear. It is often a question of “two steps forward – one step
         back”. Other times it is 4 steps forward and no step back. The markets are forever
         changing, yet it is always the same.

         I know that sounds confusing, but what it really means is that although you never
         know what will happen, you can be certain that whatever happens has happened
         before. There is nothing new under the sun, when it comes to the markets. The
         trading day is not linear either. There are times when we want to be at our screens,
         and there are times when we can expect little activity in the market.

         Here is how I see the markets from Sunday night to Friday night. All times are
         London GMT.




                                                             14
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Sunday Night


         At 10pm Sunday night many markets open. The currency market opens because in
         New Zealand and Australia the time is now Monday morning for them. They have
         business to do. They are the ones who kick off the trading week. An hour later many
         stock index futures open as well. This is an instrument which mirrors the actual
         stock market index, but it is open to trading almost 24 hours a day, even when the
         real stock market is closed.


         Monday to Friday


                           Although most traders in London don’t arrive at work until around
            06:00          07:00 the European traders in the financial centres such as Frankfurt,
                           Paris and Geneva arrive at their respective desk at 07:00. 7am in
                           Europe is 6am in London. Almost every day you see an increase in the
                           volatility in the Forex market after 06:00.

                           The German DAX futures index opens for trading on the EUREX
            07:00          exchange. This is a particular important time because the DAX index
                           is the biggest stock market index Europe, and it will often give traders
                           a clue as to what lies ahead in the world of stock market trading on
                           that day.

                           All European stock markets open at 08:00am. The trading day has
            08:00          officially started. By now the Foreign Exchange traders in Europe and
                           London are running at full speed. Equity markets are up and running
                           as well, and the next 2-3 hours marks the first busy period of the
                           trading day.




                                                             15
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         From a trader’s perspective this is where you will find good trading setups. Of
         course, you can trade at any time during the day and night, but I prefer to trade when
         there are movements in the markets.Does it matter to the stock market what the
         currency market is doing? Does it matter to the currency market what the stock
         market is doing?

         I would generally say NO.

         I say no because I don’t need to know what is going on in the currency market to
         trade the stock market. However, I also do know that the two at times affect each
         other, but it is often not obvious until after the fact.

         Sometimes you will see what appears to be a correlation between the stock market
         and its underlying currency. I am from Denmark, so I naturally keep an eye on the
         Danish currency. I have witnessed the Danish currency being sold off, or bought up,
         and it had no impact on the Danish stock market.

         My own mentor taught me to focus on what is happening – not what I think is
         happening. Let me give you a specific example of that. Let’s say the German DAX
         index, which is home to the 30 biggest stocks in Germany, is strong. It is moving
         higher. Let’s at the same time assume that the Dow index in America is weak. It is
         not moving higher. Just because both are stock indices doesn’t mean that one can’t
         be weak, while the other is strong.

         This means you should not sell short the DAX index just because you think it will
         follow the American Dow index. Nor should you buy the Dow index, just because the
         DAX is strong, and you think the Dow will follow the DAX.




                                                             16
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                           News items are released during the trading day. Most of them are
            09:30          released at specific hours. As part of your preparation for the trading
                           day and the trading week, it is a good idea to investigate what news is
                           being released and when it is being released.

         There are many places you can receive this information. I have become quite
         accustomed to the Forex Factory calendar:

         http://www.forexfactory.com/calendar.php

         Make sure you adjust your “time” on the calendar of Forex Factory to your time
         zone, otherwise the site usually defaults to US Eastern time. There will be a lot of
         news released every day. I only pay attention to the ones that are “red flagged”.
         You can safely ignore everything else.


                           Some European news is released at 10:00, while other countries
            10:00          release their economic data ranging from 07:00 to 09:00. It is a good
                           idea to make it your priority in the morning to check what news is
                           released during the trading day and when it is released.

         The German DAX index - in black - overlaid with the Euro Dollar. It is tempting to
         think that a currency and its stock market may be correlated, but that isn’t the case.
         On the chart you see the two following each other at times, while at other times they
         don’t. At 10:00 the first 2 hours of trading in the stock market is over and by now
         you often see the market volatility die down. That doesn’t mean there aren’t tradable
         moves. It just means that these moves don’t tend to happen so quickly.




                                                             17
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             18
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                           By 11:00 most equity traders, and to some extent Forex traders in
            11:00          London and Europe, are winding down their activities of the morning.
                           European traders will be more focused on what to have for lunch than
                           what is happening in the market.

         Everyone will now wait for the US traders to arrive at their desks. This often
         means that the markets, both stock indices and Forex markets, will settle into a
         consolidation range or continue the trend that was established in the first couple of
         hours of trading.

         Of course, this is just a rough guide. I have also seen spectacular reversals in
         both stock indices and the Forex market between 11:00 and 13:00, but it is less
         frequent. In my experience it is relatively safe to go to lunch after 11:00 and not
         expect to miss too much. What you should be aware of is this. For you it is 11:00,
         but American East Coast traders, it is now 06:00, and they are beginning to come to
         work now.

         The first thing they will do, while drinking their coffees and orange juice is to look at
         what has happened in Europe while they were sleeping.

         The currency traders in America will look at what the European currency traders
         have bought up or sold down during the night.

         The American stock traders will do the same for stocks, and their opinions will
         broadly fall into 3 categories:


                       They agree with what is going on in Europe and they want to carry on
            1
                       with that trend (up or down).


            2          They disagree with that trend and they will begin to do the opposite.



            3          They don’t care one way or the other.




                                                             19
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                           Between noon and 14:30 the stock market is in a waiting game.
            Noon -         The US stock market opens at 14:30, but the reality is that the big
            14:30          stocks in the Dow Index and the SP500 Index have been traded on
                           other exchanges around the world, especially in Frankfurt. Therefore,
                           traders will have an idea of where the market will open.

         Traders are aware of where stocks are due to open once the official market opens
         at 14:30. A stock does not have to open at the same price it closed at the night
         before.

                           News
                           There are 2 major times when news is released in the US. At 13:30
            13:30          most government-official economic news is released from the
                           US. Not a week goes by where some important piece of economic
                           information isn’t released. Two of the major news items is the
                           monthly labour report (Non-Farm Payrolls) and the monthly GDP.

                           Other less important news is released at 15:00. It is often business
            15:00          surveys that are released at 15:00, such as ISM numbers. You should
                           have a quick look in the morning on Forex Factory to see if anything is
                           released today.

                           The “bell” rings to open the floor for official trading across America
            14:30          at 14:30. The first few minutes are often whippy and full of confusing
                           moves. This is the first opportunity that traders and investors have to
                           react to earnings results, news releases, economic data and rumours
                           in general.

                           The FTSE 100, the DAX, and the rest of the European stock indices
            16:30          close for trading. Now America is alone until 21:00.

                           Note to the Forex Markets
                           London is considered the Global Forex Centre. I am not so sure that is
                           true as much today as it once was, especially since so much trading
                           is now done electronically.

                                                             20
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         At 16:30 things tend to change a little in the FX market. The UK traders and the
         European traders have left their trading desks. This means that some of the market
         liquidity has left. Once the US traders leave their desks at around 22:00 the Forex
         market tends to go very quiet, until the Asian traders come to work around midnight.


                           If the FOMC (the FED) meets to discuss their interest rate policy in the
            19:00
                           US, they will release their statement at this time.

                           The US stock markets close for official business. The US futures carry
            21:00          on trading for another 15 minutes, then close to settle, and reopen at
                           21:30 and close at 22:00 and re-open at 23:00 and stays open until
                           21:15 the next day.

                           While there is no official close in the currency market, it is thought
            22:00          that the US trading desks hand over their book to their Asian counter-
                           parts at this time.


         Summary


         This is what a typical 24-hour cycle looks like in the markets. I know I haven’t
         discussed commodities, but they follow this cycle too. In the oil market for example,
         we tend to see much more activity during the US market hours than during the
         European market hours.


         Check Asia


         I always check what has happened in Asia when I sit down to trade in the morning.
         Why do I put emphasis on knowing what is going on in Asia? I can think of two
         immediate reasons.




                                                             21
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         If I am expecting a negative open in European indices after a negative close on
         Wall Street the night before, but I find that Asia is in positive territory, then I will be
         looking for opportunities to buy instead.

         I also want to know what the mining companies in Australia have done during the
         night, as this will most likely carry over into the FTSE 100 index, which is also rich
         in commodity stocks.




         I check this
         information on
         CNBC. It looks
         like this:




         It would be wrong to say that nothing goes on during the night. As I stated earlier,
         even stocks that only trade officially between 14:30 and 21:00 in the US can be
         traded on other exchanges around the world.

         In the earnings season, where companies release their quarterly earnings results,
         you often see the futures market trade in big swings, as traders position themselves
         ahead of the next trading day.The Dow index consists of 30 stocks. However, each
         stock does not have the same weight in the Dow index. For example, Boeing and
         Goldman Sachs account for 16% of the Dow alone!

         When these stocks make big moves, it will have a big impact on the Dow Jones
         Index. When these companies announce their earnings results, the Dow can be
         called up or down by hundreds of points, simply on the back of where traders
         think these stocks will open. The earnings season in the US occurs in the month
         following the end of each quarter, i.e. January, April, July and October. This is often
         a volatile period in the stock market where the market moves significantly both “in
         hours” and “outside hours”.


                                                             22
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Basic Technical Analysis
         Did you know that the foundation for technical analysis was laid more than one
         hundred years ago? In fact there are those who say that analysing charts dates
         back to the 16th century and it was done by the Japanese.

         Analysing a chart is called chart analysis or more commonly known as techncial
         analysis. It is only natural that the next step in this book is a chapter about the most
         basic concepts of technical analysis.

         The basic premise for technical analysis is known as Dow Theory and it was
         developed by Charles Dow more than a hundred years ago. What we have taken
         away from those newspaper articles he posted back then forms the foundation of
         what we know as technical analysis.




                                                             23
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Trend Analysis
         Take a look at this chart! It is easy to see that the stock is trending down. It is in a “down-trend”.

         The question we have to answer is this:
         How do we quickly and precisely define a “trend” so we can jump onboard and make money from it?

                                                                    24
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Definitions
         The definitions for a trending market is not overly complicated.

         Up Trend                                              Down Trend
         For the market to be in an up-trend,                  For the market to be in a down-
         the market has to make higher                         trend, the market has to make
         highs and higher lows.                                lower highs and lower lows.


         Example


         DOW Theory
         Bull Trend
         Rising Tops & Rising Bottoms


                                                                            6



                                                       4
                                                                                   Trend Line
         Price




                                2                                   5



                                               3


                          1

                                                             Time


                                                              25
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         On the chart previous, the market is making a series of “higher lows”. What that
         means is that the lows you see at point 1, point 3 and point 5, are each higher than
         the previous low. Point 3 low is higher than point 1 low. Point 5 low is higher than
         point 3 low. This is what you see when the market is in an up-trend.

         You also see that point 4 is higher than point 2 and point 6 is higher than point 4.
         This is another sign of an up-trend. Rising highs and rising lows means this market
         is in an up-trend. Of course, the opposite holds true for a down-trend. A down-trend
         consists of a series of lower highs and lower lows. One of the challenges that new
         traders have is the idea of selling short the market.

         If the market is trending down, it would be nice to be able to make a profit from it.
         Well, you can, if you know how to sell short the market. Selling short means you are
         selling something now, and you will buy it back at some point later, hopefully at a
         cheaper price. You pocket the difference between where you sold it, and where you
         bought it back.



         Example of Trend Analysis
         On the chart on the next page you see a stock over many years. You should be able
         to see it going through “phases” where it is in an up-trend, and “phases” where it is
         in a down-trend. Can you spot the up-trend and the down-trend?

         I have made it easier to see by labelling the up-trends with blue lines and down-
         trends with red lines.

         First the market moves up, and the peaks are higher than the previous peaks. Then
         it changes, and the market fails to make a new high. It also makes a low, which is
         lower than the previous low.

         The market has moved from an up-trend to a down-trend.




                                                             26
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Example of an up-trend turning into a down-trend




                                                             27
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         This stock was in a long-term up-trend until year 2001. In late 2001 it makes a
         double-top, and a down-trend begins. This down-trend is visible to the trained eye
         because of several clues: the red line you see on the chart is a moving average,
         and it begins to slope downwards and the price of the stock is below the moving
         average. You should also see that the market continues to make lower tops and
         lower lows.

         In 2005 the market makes an attempt to move higher, and it succeeds temporarily.
         Then the market fails, rolls over, and the down-trend resumes. Don’t for one second
         think that the market is always easy to understand – just because you know how
         to read a chart and understand technical analysis. That is why we use money
         management when we trade. We will cover that later. Some markets are very easy
         to analyse.

         The chart on the following page is easy to analyse. I am preparing a trade in the
         Australian Dollar. The first thing I need to figure out is what the big trend is. It is easy
         to see that the Australian Dollar against the US Dollar was trending up to begin with.
         Then it changed.

         The change is also easy to see. The chart is making two tops close to each other in
         the middle of the chart. Then the market makes a big move lower, which goes below
         the last low (the last low before the highest high point you can see on the chart).

         Then the market begins to trade sideways, but it never makes it up to the old high.
         The market slowly but surely begins to trend lower. A market has moved from being
         in an up-trend into a down-trend.




                                                             28
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             29
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Definition of Trend Change
         How do you decide that an up-trend is no longer in place? How do you decide that
         we have moved from an up-trend to a down-trend?

         I was taught this definition: To reverse an up-trend to a down-trend, the market
         must make a lower low, and a lower high, and then turn down from there.


         Example

         The chart of Gold on the following page is moving up, but at point 1, the market
         makes a high, which is not a higher high. It is a lower high. The high at number 1
         is lower than the high you see at the top of the chart. At point 2 it has made a low,
         which is lower than the previous low. By point 3 the downtrend has been confirmed.
         The moment the market begins to trade below the low at point 2, you could argue
         that a trend change has taken place.




                                                             30
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Some markets are much more difficult to analyse, such as the next one. It is difficult to tell if this market is in an
         up-trend or a down-trend, or perhaps in no trend at all. Can you tell me what the chart trend is?




                                                                   31
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             32
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         No, you can’t. Neither can I. We can’t say that the trend is up. We can’t say the trend
         is down either. In fact it makes most sense to say that there isnt really a trend in
         place.

         This market is called RANGE-BOUND, or a RANGING MARKET.

         Some traders love range-bound markets. Some traders love trending markets. Some
         traders are good at trading both kinds of markets. Both trading disciplines have
         their merits. It is just a question of training and strategy and risk management.



         Principles of Technical Analysis
         What is technical analysis for me?

         It is a way to read the mood of the market. It gives me trade entries. It tells me
         where to place my stop loss. I argue that chart patterns repeat over and over. This is
         the reason why I am able to make money trading.




                                                             33
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Price Action & Price Behaviour
         I remember the first time I read Arthur Merrill’s work on price and price action.
         Arthur is a Wall Street veteran, and his focus was on price, and price patterns.
         Before I read his work, I wasn’t really sure what people meant when they spoke
         about price and price behaviour. The fact is that price is driven by demand and
         supply, which is driven by people. I have distilled my beliefs of price below. I call
         this part the Principles of Price Behaviour.



            1         Price is the only real TRUTH in the market. Price never lies. It can’t.


                      Trending markets have higher odds of continuing the trend than of
            2
                      reversing the trend.

                      Ending of trends fall into only two categories. I will discuss these
            3
                      two later.


            4         Price alternates between ranging markets and trending markets.




                                                             34
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         In 2010 I did a seminar at Soho House in London for traders from all walks of life.
         There were hedge fund traders and there were private retail traders. The topic of the
         talk was “price” and “price action”.

         I showed the audience every conceivable method for pin-pointing where the market
         could change – from an analytical point of view. There were charts of Fibonacci
         ratios, both in time and in price. There were charts of volume analysis, highlighting
         the theory that trends end in a climax, be it an emotional price spike or in a volume
         spike.

         I even showed them the correlation between the stock market and the ebb and flow
         of the tide, as governed by the moon. Most people had a good laugh about that one.
         Finally I showed them a chart of the Dow Jones Index since 1960, with a simple
         200-day moving average. The moving average is a lagging indicator. It doesn’t catch
         the high or the low. It simply shows the average price of an asset over a period of
         time – in this case over the last 200 days.

         The moving average – especially on long-term charts - is considered a good trend
         indicator and as such it is far superior in terms of returns than any other tool. The
         audience could appreciate that trends tend to persist and tend to run a lot longer
         than most people dare to believe.




                                                             35
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Price Behaviour
         Principle 1

         “Value doesn’t exist”

         The biggest lesson for many traders and investors to unlearn about the markets
         is the idea of value. If you walk into a supermarket to buy a bag of rice, and it cost
         £1, you may think it is a fair price. If it cost £1.50, you may think it is expensive
         (because it cost £1 the day before), and you may decide to not buy the bag of rice.
         If it cost 50 pence, then you may think it is cheap and you will buy more rice than if
         it had cost £1.

         The ”rice” story makes perfect sense in the world of consumerism. It is logical. But
         the financial markets DO NOT fall into this category. The markets are NOT logical
         how you and I want it to be logical.

         If a stock cost £1, you may think it is expensive. You may think it is fairly priced or
         you may think it is cheap. Nevertheless, the price is determined by the market at £1.
         If you think it is cheap, and you decide to buy it, you will need someone else to think
         like you do, BUT AFTER you thought about it.

         Say for the sake of this argument that the stock which cost £1 yesterday now cost
         50 pence today. Does that make it cheap? Some would say yes. However, you have
         to seriously question why a stock you think is attractive has fallen 50% in price. I
         have had this argument with many people. Some agree with me. Others don’t see
         it as I see it. Fair enough. Let me tell you a story. It happened in 2008. I received
         a phone call from an investor. He asked me what I thought of a stock, one he had
         bought into, and one that was falling rapidly. The stock in question was Northern
         Rock (NR). NR was a UK banking stock. It had peaked at 1200 pence the year
         before, and since then it had fallen and fallen.

         At the point of the phone call, the stock was now trading around 400-500 pence.
         The man argued that it was cheap, and he had already bought it. Now he wanted my
         assurance that I also thought it was cheap.


                                                             36
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The chart of the stock at that point in time looked horrible to me.



                                                                  37
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Northern Rock had been a stable stock on the UK stock market. Some would say
         it was a boring stock. Then they changed their business strategy and the bank
         became involved with the same products that brought down Lehman Brothers in
         America. At first the stock rose rapidly, but then it fell, and fell. Would you buy this
         stock on this chart here? Is it “cheap”? Is it "good value"?

         I asked him: Why do you want to buy it now?

         He said he thought it was cheap. He said it was one of England’s oldest banks and
         he was certain it was not going to fail. He said that it had a solid reputation in the
         industry and that he was very happy to buy more. He felt it was rare that a blue chip
         stock like NR was this cheap.

         At this point he invited me to comment on his argument.

         I asked him what the age of the bank had to do with the quality of the stock? I
         asked him if he had considered who was selling, and why it was falling as rapidly
         as it was? It must mean someone is keen to get out of the stock.

         I asked him if he remembered the story of Marconi?




                                                             38
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Marconi was an old company in England. It was a leader in its field. Then it changed
         its business strategy. At first it went well, but then it hugely backfired. The stock
         eventually went to ZERO.

         I was working in my first trading analyst job when this happened. I went on TV
         during 2001 and stated that I had no idea where the low in Marconi would be, but
         I thought that zero could be the place where it stopped. Danish humour at its best,
         but my boss disagreed, and I was asked to apologise and retract my statement.

         I was young and naive, and I didn’t know that many of our best clients were heavily
         invested in Marconi. They eventually lost fortunes. It wasn’t long after that I was
         mysteriously made unemployed, but fortunately for me there were plenty of other
         companies who did value someone speaking his mind.

         Back to our friend who wanted to buy Northern Rock: He said he did remember
         Marconi, but he argued that Northern Rock was nothing like Marconi.

         I said to him: “Maybe you are right. Maybe Northern Rock is different to Marconi, but
         right now there are major institutions unloading their Northern Rock stocks.

         I don’t know why they are doing it, but they are. If you think these institutions are
         wrong, then by all means go ahead and buy more. However, in my experience, it
         never pays off to bet on finding the lowest point in a stock. It has a tendency to go
         a lot lower than you think.” I never heard from the man again. I don’t know what
         happened to him. I do know what happened to Northern Rock. It went bust. The
         shareprice went to ZERO.




                                                             39
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             40
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         So here is my answer to the question: are the markets ever cheap or expensive?
         No. There is no such thing as cheap. There is no such thing as expensive either.
         There is just “the price”. In this case the price has gone down. It makes no sense in
         the financial markets to buy a stock, which is going down. At least wait until you see
         other buyers stepping in.



         Lesson
         The financial markets are driven by economics, by technicals, and by emotions. It is
         people who push markets higher or lower. You may think it is economics that push
         the markets higher or lower, but the reality is that it is people and their interpretation
         of the economic realities and the economical prospects and potential that is
         pushing a market higher or lower.

         Trends persist because when things go well for a company, it tends to carry on
         going well for a company. Trends persist in a currency pair because when things go
         poorly for one country, it tends to continue to go poorly for that country.

         As such, being an investor or a trader can require you do things that don’t seem
         logical. I often use a supermarket metaphor to illustrate what I mean.

         If you visit a supermarket and you see that butter is half price, you are inclined to
         buy more butter than you need right now. You will stick it in the freezer until you
         need it.

         It could be virtually any product for that matter. If it is cheaper than before, you will
         at least consider buying it – and the cheaper it is as compared to before – the more
         tempted you are to buy it.

         The financial markets traders are completely opposite in their behaviour than
         a supermarket shopper. They know that if something becomes cheaper and
         cheaper every day, there is a reason for it. To use the “butter metaphor” from
         the supermarket example, a falling price in the financial markets will make an
         experienced trader think there is something rotten about the butter.


                                                             41
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         When I see a market falling, I often have to accept to myself that I don’t understand
         why. However, if I don’t accept it, and I start buying, I am actually ignoring what the
         market is telling me.

         If the market is rising, and I don’t understand why, it makes no sense to ignore the
         fact it is rising. The market is bigger than me. It is bigger than all of us. I am better
         off simply accepting that the market is rising, and I need to find a place to jump in.

         I tell my students that the markets are irrational to a rational human being. The
         rational person who comes into this arena called the financial markets would not
         want to “buy butter” today, just because it is more expensive today than yesterday
         and the day before.

         Butter is trending higher, and it is getting more and more expensive each day.
         You might not want to buy butter in the supermarket if that happened, but if it is a
         stock we are talking about, then you need to train yourself to accept that it makes
         more sense to buy something today, simply because it has increased in price from
         yesterday.

         This is why I argue that the markets are an illogical place. Where else does it make
         sense to buy something just because it has already increased in price? You wouldn’t
         do it in a supermarket, but you need to in the financial markets, because trends
         persist.



         Lehman Brothers
         2004-2009

         Lehman Brothers
         stock got cheaper
         and cheaper every
         single day until the
         day it was worth
         NOTHING.




                                                             42
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Price Behaviour
         Principle 2

        “Follow the herd – follow the trend”
         Following the trend is another way of saying “follow the majority”. I am not so sure
         that statement is technically correct, but it is not so important at this point in time.

         It is a simple piece of advice, and although there are MANY nuances to this simple
         statement, it does make your trading and investment life a whole lot easier. I have
         a saying for my students. As you are now also my student, you need to know it
         too. I like to “fade” the short-term trend in favour of the long-term trend. I will talk a
         lot more about that later in the book, but here is a simple example. If the trend on
         the Daily chart is up, and the trend on the hourly chart is down, then I will consider
         going against the trend on the 60-min chart, because the trend on the Daily chart is
         up. I call this action "fading the 60-min trend in the direction of the Daily trend".




                                                             43
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Let me give you a simple example of what I mean by that. On the chart previous
         – of Euro Yen – you see a down-trend in progress. The market is trending lower.
         However, you will also notice that although the market is trending down, there are
         times when the market is moving up. Those up-moves do not last long, but they are
         nevertheless a part of a normal trend.

         I have coloured this chart, to show you what I mean by “strong trend” and “weak
         trend”. The blue colour is the strong trend. The green is the weak trend.

         My trading philosophy is that when a trend is in place, I will use the counter-moves
         against the "strong" trend as an opportunity to get into the market.
         I call the counter-moves the “weak” trend, or the “short-term” trend.

         I teach my students to fade (go against) the short-term trend in the direction of
         the long-term trend. How do I know what the strong trend is? I look for the signs of
         a trend, which is higher highs and higher lows for an up-trend, or lower highs and
         lower lows for a down-trend.

         I will give you a practical example to study on the next page. Over the last 4 months
         the Euro Dollar currency has trended lower. You are seeing a DAILY chart below. I
         have marked the downtrend with an orange colour.




                                                             44
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         It should be easy for you to see that Euro Dollar is trending lower. However, this is a daily chart you are looking at.
         What happens if you look at a smaller time frame?

         What I will show you next is a much smaller picture of the Euro Dollar from April 2018 until July 2018. It is not a
         daily chart I will show you. Instead I will show you Euro Dollar on a 30-min chart. By doing so, I hope you will be
         able to learn to differentiate between the “strong” trend, which you are seeing on the Daily chart, and the weaker
         trend, which you are seeing on the 30-min chart.

                                                                   45
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The logic here is that if the bigger time frame trend is down, then the trend on the bigger time frame is more
         important than the trend on the smaller time frame.


                                                                 46
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Above you see Euro Dollar on a 30min chart. As you would expect, the trend is
         pointing lower. What I want you to pay attention to is what the good traders are
         doing, whenever they have an opportunity to do so:

         Everytime the market rallies higher, they take advantage of it, and they sell short.

         What are they doing? They are fading the short-term rallies on the 30min chart in
         the direction of the long-term trend on Daily chart, which is down.

         The chart on the following page shows some more trading days from Euro Dollar.
         This is how good traders trade a trending market. It is not difficult at all, but it does
         require patience.

         Every time the market has rallied for a while, the sellers come into the market, and
         they push the market back down again. That is how a down-trend works. Sure, the
         down-trend won’t last forever, but do you know when it ends? I don’t.

         There is a good saying about trends, which goes back to the last century. It goes
         something like this: Top pickers and bottom pickers soon become cotton pickers. I
         guess the saying stems from a time where manual labour would pick cotton in the
         fields, and if you wanted to avoid that, you should not try to pick the point where
         a trend is ending. You should simply follow the market in its current direction and
         trade in that direction.

         The Japanese have a slightly different saying, which is a little more humouristic:
         Those who insist on peeing against the wind (trading against the trend), will have to
         accept a bigger cleaning bill.

         I am not stating you have to be an expert on the Euro Dollar currency pair to make
         money trading it. You need to understand trends, and how trends work. If you can
         do that, then you can make money trading.




                                                             47
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             48
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Charles Dow writes about the strong trend in his work, we today call Dow Theory.
         The odds of the trend continuing is higher than the odds of it reversing. When the
         market is trending, it displays many familiar characteristics, some of which I will
         teach you in this book.

         It is important to remember that as a technical trader, i.e. a trader who uses charts
         and price data to gauge when to enter the market, and when to exit the market, we
         are constantly looking for places to buy or sell the market with as little risk to our
         money as possible.

         Below I have summed up in short sentences what I have come to believe about
         price action:


                      Once the trend is established, it is better to bet it will continue than it will
            1
                      reverse.

                      A big trend rarely stops withouth major warning signs, such as price
            2
                      spikes, volume spikes, emotional market (when the financial press
                      declares that this trend will never end), or the market simply goes into a
                      sideways range.

                      The largest part of the price move comes towards the end of the trend.
            3
                      This statement will take some explaining. My own mentor used to say
                      that “90% of the move comes in the last 10% of the trend (time wise)”.




                                                             49
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Price Behaviour
         Principle 3

         “The End of Trend”

                      The market reaches a price level which has significance to investors.
            1         It could be a previous high or low from the past. It could be a round
                      number. It could be a price where investors think this is too good to be
                      true, and they take advantage of this price.

                      Volume Spike. Increased volume at a price level is often indicative of an
            2
                      imminent trend change.

                      Emotional High/Low. You will often need to refer to the media to catch
            3         these kinds of highs or low. I can right now think of a good example
                      almost everyone in the world will remember: BITCOIN. Everyone was
                      talking about Bitcoin and there was no end to how high it would go. This
                      was just around Xmas 2017. 6 months later, Bitcoin was trading 70%
                      lower.


         A trend will continue until it reaches a price level associated with an emotional
         response by the market. It can be a SELLING SPIKE, where the market is so fearful
         that investors just want to get out at any price. This is what you see in stock market
         crashes. Fear is dominating the market in those cases.

         Then there is the euphoria spikes when the market reaches dizzying heights on the
         perception that it will go much higher. We call this the “frenzy and hype” phase.




                                                             50
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         It can simply also be a case of the market hitting a significant price level, and it
         begins a process of 2 steps forward – 2 steps back.

         We call this a range-bound market. The market moves from a trending market to a
         range-bound market.

         When the market is range-bound, the traders have to mentally prepare themselves
         for the possibility that the market will continue in the direction it had BEFORE it
         went into the range-bound market, or that it will reverse and begin a new trend in the
         opposite direction.



         Price Behaviour
         Principle 4

         “Ranging to Trending to Ranging”

         The stocks and currencies and bonds and indices and anything else in the financial
         markets moves from trading within a range, to trending higher
         or lower.

         The chart on the next page is a good example of how a market moves from being in
         a trading range to being in a trending market.

         It is the price of Gold. Those traders who trade according to trend jump on board by
         selling short Gold. Those who were long have to sell out and close their positions at
         lower and lower prices. A new trend is born.




                                                             51
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Gold is trading in a range. Normal trend analysis doesn’t apply here. The market is making both higher lows and
         lower highs. Around the middle of the chart Gold breaks down sharply. This is the beginning of a trending market.
         The market has moved from a ranging market to a trending market.

                                                                52
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         How do we make money from this?
         The market moves up and down in mini-trends, within a bigger trend, which is up or
         down (or sideways). We call these moves “swings”. What we want to do is to trade
         those swings using the tools taught in this manual.

         If you are new to trading, then do your best to follow the instructions the best you
         can. Your job starting out is not to make money, but to avoid losing money whilst
         staying in the game, learning and getting valuable experience.

         As I have said before, an up-trend, a swing higher, is made up of a pattern of higher
         highs and higher lows. When the market goes from an up-trend to a down-trend,
         it must first make a lower high, then a lower low, and then surpass the low of the
         lower low. If it takes out the lower low, we have a confirmation of a trend change.
         However, here is a VERY important lesson.

         If you look at a 5-min chart, you can easily see the market change trend from up to
         down. This doesn’t mean that the trend has changed on the higher time frame such
         as the 60-min chart.

         Next I am going to take you through the principles of price action and trend
         analysis. It will help you in your education to see the patterns visually rather than
         just having them described to you in words.


         Illustration of Trend Trade Concept

         Before I move to the next topic though, I want to show you a graphical illustration of
         what we are trying to do. We want to trade in the direction of the long-term trend.

         When the market moves against the long-term trend, it is our job to identify an area
         where we want to enter the market.




                                                             53
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         We want to trade the trend, not the counter-trend. The traders I know who trade
         professionally for firms or funds are constantly looking to identify areas where they
         can enter the market in the direction of the strong trend.

         When the “big picture” trend is down, and the market is bouncing, they are looking
         for a place to sell short the market.

         When the market is trending higher, they are looking for places where they can buy
         the market. The difference between the professional and the individual starting out
         is simply experience. Now, let's move on to the principles of Price Action and Trend.




                                                             54
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Principles of Price Action & Trend
         Within this chapter you will find a series of charts. Each chart will have its own
         annotation. It will describe the theory of trend and price action.




                                                             55
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Lower High and Lower Low = WARNING
         But it does not mean the trend has changed




         The up-trend is not broken, but the market is so far showing a lower high (see red
         markings) and lower low. If the market turns down from here, the downtrend is
         confirmed. Otherwise this is just a 2-legged retracement, sometimes known as an
         ABCD.

         It is important that you know that the odds of a trend reversal is not as high as the
         odds of the trend continuing higher. You will often see the market correct lower in
         an up-trend. The ABCD pattern is essentially a 2-moves down correction. It has 2
         legs down. You will see this a lot.




                                                             56
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Lower High and Lower Low = WARNING
         Downtrend is confirmed when lower low is exceeded




                                                             Low


                                                                   Lower Low




         The up-trend is broken if the market moves below the “lower low”. If the market has
         made a lower high, a lower low, and the market has traded below this lower low,
         then you can argue that a trend change has taken place.

         However, please make sure you pay attention to this lesson: Just because you have
         a trend change confirmation on a lower time frame, does NOT mean you have a
         confirmed trend change on a higher time frame.

         On the example above, the trend has not changed yet. All we can see is a sequence
         of a top, a low, a lower top, a lower low, but we have not seen the market move
         below the “lower low”. Until that happens, the market is still in an up-trend.

         I have a live trading room, where I post my trades in real-time, as they happen. At
         times I receive complaints from people, who claim I am trading against the trend.

         Well, maybe I am, but I will tell you this: The whole debate about trend is very
         clouded. Why do I say that? I say that because hypothetically speaking, I can look at
         a 5-min chart and clearly see the market is trending higher.

                                                             57
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The 5-min time frame is my focus for this particular trade, so why do I care what
         the daily or weekly chart is saying? I am not planning on being in the trade for more
         than 5-10 minutes anyway.

         Do you follow my idea here? I accept that the trend is down on the weekly chart or
         the daily chart, but I don’t care, because I am looking at a much shorter time frame,
         and the daily and weekly trend will have no real impact on the trend over the next
         10-20 minutes, which is how long I plan to be in the trade.

         I don’t want to confuse you too much. The markets are confusing enough as it is. I
         just want you to be conscious of one thing: Part of your education will be to decide
         what time frame you prefer to trade. When you do, you will almost certainly also be
         faced with the prospect of trading against the trend at times, even though that trend
         will have no impact on your trade.

         Let’s move on.


         Lower Low = WARNING




         The up-trend is not broken, but the market is correcting by going below the previous
         low, which sends a warning signal that the trend could be about to change. The
         trend hasn’t changed yet.

                                                             58
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Lower Low = WARNING
         Downtrend confirmed when lower low is exceeded




         The up-trend is broken if the market trades below the lower low. The market has
         made a lower high, a lower low, but the market has not traded below this lower low.



         The Euro Dollar chart on the next page is a perfect example of how theory and
         reality can be two very different things. Point 1 to 4 is a perfect real-life example of
         an up-trend. But then things get tricky. Is “5” a low, or is “5” a lower low? Is it “5a”
         that if the first low and then “5” which is the lower low? I argue that “5a” is not an
         important low. It is “5” that is the important low.

         That makes the “4 to 5” and the “6 to 7” what we call an AB-CD, and the trend can
         continue higher.




                                                             59
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             60
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Definition of Trend Change - Again
         When the market goes from an up-trend to a down-trend, it must make the following
         sequence of events:


            1         First it must make a lower high.



            2         Then it must make a lower low.



            3         Then it must surpass the low of the lower low.


                      If it takes out the lower low, we have a confirmation of
            4
                      a trend change.


         I want you to read this next sentence a few times. I am not interested in being
         academically right about some technical analysis definition – I want to make
         money.

         If I had taken a trade based on the market moving below point 6, and I had believed
         the market had changed trend, and I was now betting on the market falling further,
         then so let that be it.

         I would have been wrong, because the market moved higher. However, it would
         not have been the end of the world. It would not have been the end of my career. It
         would not have been the end of anything. It would just have meant that I was proven
         wrong by the market. I would have taken my loss quickly, and I would have moved
         on to the next trade.




                                                             61
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         I want you to get it into your head quickly that no matter how good you think a
         trader is, he or she will have losing trades. I want you to read the next sentence
         carefully, because it may just mean the difference between you having a successful
         career as a trader or not having one at all:

         The way you handle your losses will tell you more about your potential to become a
         profitable trader than any other indicator.

         Your “hit-rate” won’t tell you how good you are or how good you could be.
         I know of traders who I have coached who have a hit-rate of 85%, yet the 15% of
         their trades, the losing trades, ran out of control, and they lost 20 times as much as
         they made on their 85%. Is that who you want to become? You want a high hit-rate
         because it feels good to have a lot of winning trades? Or is it more important to
         make money? What weighs heaviest to you? Being right
         or making money?

         The Euro Dollar chart with the benefit of hindsight looks more like the chart below.
         The market didn’t change trend. The warning didn’t result in a trend change. It sets
         up a “Continuation Buy” signal as the market passes the old swing high.

         Warning didn't result in a trend change and sets up new "Continuation Buy" signal
         as market passes the old swing high.




                                                             62
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         In fact, it looks very much like a pattern called an AB CD. You should familiarize
         yourself with this pattern. It happens a LOT – I mean A LOT!!!


         Classic ABCD Correction




         Is the Market Always Right?
         “The market is always right” is one of the axioms of the traders who have been
         around the block once or twice in their career. They believe that you should not
         argue with the market. If a stock is trading at $100 and it used to trade at $200, it is
         NOT worth $200 anymore, no matter what you say or think. The market has spoken.

         I will agree with the statement. The market is always right, but it doesn’t mean I
         agree with it. I accept the current price as the truth, but I also know that price will
         fluctuate every single day. Therefore I have to come to live with the truth being ever
         changing.

         Take a statistical measure such as ATR (Average True Range): it measures the
         lowest low and the highest high over a period of time, and then gives you the
         average number over the period.



                                                             63
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         For example in Euro Dollar right at this point in time, the price is 1.3100, and the 14-
         day ATR is 120. That means that over the last 14 days the average movement from
         high to low during the day has been 120 points.In other words the price of Euro
         Dollar swings nearly 1% a day, and has done so every day for the last 14 days.

         You can say that Euro Dollar is worth 1.3100 right now. That fact is indisputable.
         You just need to make sure you are ready to move with the market, up or down,
         because over the last 14 days, the market has on average moved in 120 point
         ranges, every day.

         Markets are driven by demand and supply. Markets oscillate between “overbought”
         and “oversold”. When buyers are more aggressive than sellers, prices will rise, and if
         the sellers are more aggressive than buyers, then prices will fall. I know I am stating
         the obvious, but my point is this: The flow of the market makes it a measure or
         barometer of demand and supply, but not a valuation tool.

         So I argue that if prices are moving higher, and you have a short position in that
         market, you are "wrong" and the market is "right". If you argue against the market,
         you are missing a point. You can’t control the market. You can only control your
         response to the market.

         Before you can become a professional technical trader you need to understand
         a few things about the markets.The famous analyst W.D. Gann once wrote that
         "there is no price too high to buy and there is no price too low to sell". Anyone who
         believes that the market will unfold within the parameters of reason is bound to
         lose money. I remember some years ago, in 1992, when George Soros made over
         a billion dollars by continually shorting the British Pound. He believed it was vastly
         overvalued due to the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, which prevented it from
         floating freely – as a result of demand and supply. Instead it was held artificially in
         a narrow band against other currencies. I recall this story because at the time I was
         a young man, preparing to go to England to study. I had saved for 2 years to finance
         my studies in England, and when the time came to convert my Danish Kroners to
         British Pounds, I made an extra 25% because of George Soros and other traders
         shorting Sterling.



                                                             64
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         What most people don't know is that George Soros was underwater on this position
         for over half a billion before it turned in his favor. Here is a case of a world-famous
         speculator who believes in fundamental analysis. He is not afraid to let the market
         move against him as long as he believes in his analysis.

         Every now and then a market goes for a run (up or down), caused by the perception
         of the future, or because of rumours, maybe even market manipulation, or just
         because a majority of traders select a preference to buy or sell short a market.

         Once a move gets in motion it tends to create ripples in the market. For example, if
         a stock begins to move higher, those who have shorted the stock will be in trouble.
         They may throw in the towel, which will only push the market even higher.

         Let me tell you a little story from the real world. It took place more than a century
         ago, but it is a good tale to tell. I read about this story when I came across a famous
         investor called Bernard Baruch. The Panic of 1907 – also known as the 1907
         Bankers' Panic or the Rich Man’s Panic – was a United States financial crisis that
         took place over a three-week period starting in mid-October, when the New York
         Stock Exchange fell almost 50% from its peak the previous year.

         The primary causes of the run on banks and brokers included a retraction of market
         liquidity by a number of New York City banks and a loss of confidence among
         depositors, exacerbated by unregulated side bets at bucket shops. What I need you
         to pay attention to here are the words “loss of confidence”. When a man loses faith
         in his bank, he is not inclined to think rationally. You think this could not happen
         today? I am afraid it already has. I worked at Moorgate in London in 2009. I sat on
         the third floor of an office building where the ground floor was occupied by a branch
         of Northern Rock, the stock I told you about earlier.

         Northern Rock was in trouble. This was public knowledge. What was also public
         knowledge was that the Bank of England together with the British Government had
         guaranteed for the bank. People had been told they would not lose their money. It
         was guaranteed by the Government itself.




                                                             65
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Do you think that calmed people down? Take a look at the photo below. This was
         taken outside the branch in Moorgate and it was taken the day after the Government
         had guaranteed everyone’s deposits. That is a long queue, isn’t it?




         Back to the Rich Man’s Panic, which was triggered by the failed attempt in October
         1907 to corner the market on a stock called United Copper Company. When this
         bid failed, banks that had lent money to the speculators involved in the cornering
         scheme, became insolvent.

         What I learned from studying the Rich Man’s Panic was that one stock can affect
         an entire market. In this case investors liquidated their positions in other unrelated
         stocks, simply because they needed money to cover their margin calls in United
         Copper Company. There was nothing wrong with the stocks they sold.

         They just had to get their hands on anything to sell to raise money. Do you now see
         that there can be a million reasons why a market is trending higher or lower, and you
         may not necessarily know why. Just because you don’t know why it is rising, doesn’t
         mean you should ignore what you are seeing. Never lose site of this fact if you are a
         trader.
                                                             66
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Trend Indicators
         The last 2 chapters have dealt with trend and how to read charts. Now I
         want to teach you a simple trend indicator. I call it the Three Bar Swing.
         I was taught this technique by Bryce Gilmore.

         There are all sorts of indicators showing you the trend. I think one of the simplest
         and quickest is the 3 BAR PRICE SWING CHART.

         If markets that were previously moving higher are breaking back below the previous
         3-bar low, then there is a real possible chance of a change in trend. For markets
         moving lower, the opposite is true.




                                                             67
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         I use a simple tool called the 3-day swing:

         The three-day swing chart is the best indicator of trend I know of from a purely
         mechanical point of view.

                                                                                         UP
                                                                        Pivot Point
                                                                                       DOWN

         DOWN

                                                                  UP


                                   UP                DOWN




         This chart is an example of the 3-day (3 bar rule).

         Before I venture into the days trading I look at what the highest high and the lowest
         low is for the last 3 days. Starting from the left, the first 3 bars set the tone. The
         second bar is the lowest of the three. Therefore the rule states that if this low is
         exceeded, then the trend is down.


         Let’s take a look at a real-life example, this time Euro Dollar:

         Starting from the left, you quickly get an idea of how the 3-day swing chart works.
         The long line starting 11 bars into the chart is the lowest low at that point, and the
         market keeps trading near it, but above it. I simply kept this level as my dividing
         line between the market being in an up-trend and a down-trend. It is that simple.
         Towards the right of the chart the market begins to trade lower. On two occasions
         it looks as though the market is about to break above the three day high, but it
         doesn’t. The market stays in a down-trend.

                                                             68
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The 3-day swing chart is constructed using the highs and lows of the last 4 trading days. For instance if today
         the current price trades below the lowest low of the last 3 days, then the trend is down.

         It is an incredibly simple and powerful tool to make sure you understand what forces are at play. Is the market
         bullish or is it bearish?

                                                                 69
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Can you use the 3-bar method for anything less than the daily chart?

         Yes, you can, but you need to be aware of the possiblity that the signals become
         more frequent and possibly less reliable.

         The final trend tool I want to show is the basic trendline. It is so basic that it is
         hardly worth spending much time on.

         I have shown a Euro Dollar chart which has a couple of trendline break signals on
         them. The idea behind a trendline is to connect a low with a higher low, and project
         this line outwards. This gives you an idea of where support is in the market.

         If the line at some point is broken, then it constitutes a trendline break and the
         market is, in theory, setting up a sell signal.

         The same applies to connecting a high and a lower high. If the market is trending
         lower, but a trendline connecting a high and a lower high is broken, then the market
         may be ripe for a long position.

         I don’t wish to spend too much time on trendlines. They are the simplest trick in the
         book and quite self explanatory. However, there is something I like to give away, a
         little secret, if you like:

         The chart on the next page shows two trendlines. I actually only drew one of them,
         and then copied it onto the other low. The slope is 100% identical.

         I have found in my research that very often you can draw one trendline and copy it
         onto other highs or lows, and you get a good idea of support and resistance in the
         market, and where you potentially can buy or sell short.




                                                             70
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             71
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Daily Work Routine
         The daily work routine is the process that I go through in preparation of the trading
         day. It may seem lengthy to you to begin with. It isn’t. It will quickly become
         second nature, and it should not take you much more than a couple of minutes per
         currency.

         Although there are many currencies to choose from, I only look at the following
         currencies for my swing trading: Euro Dollar, Sterling Dollar, Dollar Swiss, Dollar Yen,
         Euro Yen, and Sterling Yen.

         For my day-trading I only engage in 3 currency pairs: Sterling Dollar and Euro Dollar,
         and from time to time the rather volatile Euro Yen.

         By only focusing on a few currency pairs, I gain a better understanding of the nature
         of these instruments. Each currency has their own little quirks, which you get to
         know by observing them.




                                                             72
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Weekly Chart


         I use two different methods for deciding the trend on the weekly chart. They are
         important because they create my bias for the week. Having a bias means that I am
         looking for confirmation for the market to move in a certain direction.

         For example, if my bias is “long”, i.e. to buy the market, then I am looking for
         patterns that conform with this viewpoint. It is not always an advantage to have
         a bias because it potentially leaves you without the flexibility needed to address
         changes in market sentiment.

         I use the simple method called the 3-bar break that I described in the last chapter.
         I look at the previous 3 bars, the previous 3 weeks, or days, and I determine what the
         highest high and the lowest low is for those 3 bars.

         If the market during the week breaks one of these two levels, either the high of the
         last 3 bars, or the low of the last bars, then I consider that a trend change.

         Incidentally I do the same on the daily chart. The technique I use on the weekly
         chart applies to the daily chart as well. It sometimes gives me an early confirmation
         of a trend change.

         The Euro Dollar weekly chart on the following page gives me a bias. On Sunday
         night, as preparation for the trading week ahead, I look at the most recent 3 weekly
         bars.

         What is the high of the last 3 bars?

         What is the low of the last 3 bars?

         It is simple, but it really works well.




                                                             73
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             74
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Candlestick Charting
         I have studied Candlestick charts intensely for many years.

         This chapter contains the essence of Candlecharts. This is what I believe you need
         to know to start trading. This chapter is by no means a fully comprehensive chapter
         on candlestick charting. If you want to read a good book on Candlecharting, then I
         recommend the following book:

         Candlestick Charts by Clive Lambert

         However, I do have a significant amount of trading experience, and as I said earlier,
         I believe that the following pages on Candles are all you need to know, unless you
         intend to become an expert. For trading purposes though, this covers what you
         need to know.

         A Candlechart bar uses 4 pieces of data:


             Open                        High                     Low          Close


         If the time frame you are looking at is a 5-min chart, then the candle will show you
         the open of the 5-min time period, the high of the 5-min period, the low of the 5-min
         time period, and the close of the 5-min time period.

         If you look at an hourly chart, well then it is going to give you the data of what
         happened during those 60 minutes.

         A bar chart gives you the same information. It too uses the open, the high, the low
         and the close for its construction. The difference between the familiar bar chart
         and the candle chart is that the candle chart makes use of a colour coding (usually
         red for a candle where the close is below the open, and green (or blue) for a candle
         where the close is higher than the open), which makes it easy to see which “force”
         is in charge.




                                                             75
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         I use the word “force” to describe if the bulls are in charge or if the bears are in
         charge. Bulls want the market to move higher while the bears want the market to
         move lower.


         The Candlechart Construction
         The body of a Candlechart is the difference between the open and the close. In
         Japanese Candlecharts the body takes on a significant role.

         The reason is that the Candlestick charting is essentially a PATTERN RECOGNITION
         SYSTEM.

         Let’s take a closer look at how a Candlechart is put together.

         To the left you have a positive candle. It means that the close is higher than the
         open. To the right you have a negative candle. It means that the close is lower than
         the open.


                      High                                        High

                                                 Close                         Open




                                                     Body                         Body




                                                 Open                          Close
                       Low                                        Low


                                                             76
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The Body
         The Candle is made up of two components:


             Body                        Tail


         The tail is also more popularly known as the shadow of the candle. The body is the
         point between the open of the candle and the close of the candle. On top of the
         body sits the tail, and the same applies to the point below the body.

         Both components are as important as each other in the understanding of the
         unfolding pattern.

         What you need to know about Candlecharting is that it has been portrayed as the
         Holy Grail to trading. There is a lot of marketing hype surrounding candle chart
         patterns, designed to get you to buy the “new secret pattern”.

         I happen to know the man personally who brought candles to the west, Steve Nison,
         so I know what a trader needs to know to make money from candles, and I can tell
         you that you don’t need any “secret” pattern, because it is just hype.

         I admit that for the newcomer candles can seem a handful due to the huge amount
         of signals. The truth (at least this holds true for me) is that Candlecharts are
         exceptionally easy to handle, even if you do have to filter out the quantity of signals
         that are presented during trading.




                                                             77
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Ask yourself over the course of this section:
         What is it we are trying to accomplish?

         The answer of course is simple:
         We want to know who is winning the constant battle between buying pressure and
         selling pressure.

         More importantly we want to be the first to know when the balance of power is
         shifting from one camp to the other, so we can make money from it. We don’t trade
         to satisfy a need for gratification or glory. We trade to
         make money.

         Candlecharts provide us with early clues when the balance of power is shifting from
         one camp to the other. There are false signals, which is why Candlecharts on its
         own will never be the Holy Grail, but without the understanding of Candlecharts you
         are often left in the dark at crucial turning points in the market.



         The Shadow - The Tail
         In some textbooks it is said that the open is governed by the amateurs and the
         close is ruled by the professionals. I think it is false statement, which should
         be taken with a pinch of salt. The market is what it is, a constant reflection of
         equilibrium of demand and supply. I am not concerned with if one camp appears
         more sophisticated than another. I trade what I see, not what I think.

         Nevertheless when it comes to the shadow, we are talking about the demand and
         supply that takes place after the open but before the close. We are talking about the
         price action that pushes the market from one extreme to the other.




                                                             78
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The shadow – also known as the tail - shows the extreme for the time period,
         the high and the low. By bearing this in mind we can derive some facts about the
         Shadow:


                      The shadow shows where the power shifts from one camp to another. At
            1         the extreme high or low for the Candle, the force shifts from one camp to
                      the other.

                      The shadow indicates a degree of uncertainty about the future direction
            2         of the trend. There has been a shift of power from one camp to the
                      other, and traders, speculators and investors all over the world now have
                      to decide if the “failure” of one camp to carry market further in their
                      favoured direction is a permanent failure or a temporary failure.


         In an uptrend the upper shadows can be viewed as failure on the parts of the bulls
         to dominate the time frame that is being charted.

         Furthermore in an uptrend long bearish shadows may be a pre-curser of things to
         come, although for now the supply that came into the market was absorbed by
         those who are still bullish.

         In a downtrend the opposite holds true. Upper shadows could warn that the bulls
         are trying to gather strength, while lower shadows could mean that while the market
         was bearish during the Candlechart timeframe, the bears failed to hold on to their
         advantage.

         We pay attention to these subtleties in the market, so we can assess who is winning
         the constant battle between buying pressure and selling pressure.

         We want to be the first to know when the balance of power is shifting from one
         camp to the other.




                                                             79
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The Essential 8 Candle Patterns
         I actually called this chapter “The Only 8 patterns you need to know.” During the
         editing I realised that we can always learn more, and although I think we only need
         these 8 patterns, I decided to rename it to the “Essential 8”. I am grateful for Trevor
         Niel and his assistance on this topic.




                                                             80
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The Essential 8 Candle Patterns are an attempt to simplify the hundreds of
         candlechart patterns that you see written about on the internet. It is just foolish to
         even think you need to learn so many patterns to trade well.

         I believe a market can make one of these 8 moves.




                                                             81
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Pattern Number 1
         Standard Pattern

         I call pattern number 1 a Standard Pattern.




         The Standard Pattern is generally considerd to be a continuation type pattern. It
         means that if the market has printed a bullish candle, then I will tend to expect the
         market to continue higher. The market continues to do what it has already done.
         The Standard Pattern has a strong close with a small tail on either side. It can be a
         strong positive close, or it can be a strong negative close.

         If the bar is red, I expect the market to continue lower. It is a weak close
         (I describe it as a strong negative close – which of course I mean is a weak close),
         with a little tail either side. It tends to forecast more weakness. The Standard
         Pattern will not give you a clue about any potential trend change. This is important
         to remember. The Standard Pattern is a pattern where you expect the market to
         continue higher/lower depending on the colour of candle.




                                                             82
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Pattern Number 2
         Spinning Top

         I call pattern number 2 the Spinning Top pattern.




         The Spinning Top is a neutral pattern and is distinguishable by its small
         real-body and long shadows either side of the real-body.

         Generally the market is considered to be consolidating when this pattern is formed.
         The market has very little directional conviction.

         If the market has been trending higher or lower, the Spinning Top pattern might
         warn that the trend is about to pause or has already paused.

         Let me show you an example of how I have traded a Spinning Top pattern. The
         market had been trending lower for the last 40-50 candle bars – not shown on the
         chart – and then the last 8-10 bars had been trending higher.

         I still believed that the market was primed to continue lower, so I was waiting for
         the bullish force to run out of steam. On the chart I have indicated with an arrow the
         moment I suspected that this had happened.

                                                             83
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The market makes a spinning top, and a few bars later, the low of the spinning top is
         broken. This sets in motion a move lower. By then I was short the market.

         The market had been trending lower - not shown on the chart - and was now
         retracing a little.

         I wanted to short the market, and I was waiting for a sign of weakness.

         The Spinning Top was that sign of weakness, but I still had to wait for the market
         to trade below the low of the spinning top for real confirmation.




                                                             84
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Pattern Number 3
         Doji Pattern

         I call pattern number 3 the Doji pattern. It consists of 3 possibilities.


                      There is the Long Legged Doji, which is like the Spinning Top, but there is
            1
                      no body. I also called it the Doji Star.

                      Then there is the Gravestone Doji, where the market closes at its low,
            2
                      after it has attempted to move higher.

                      Finally there is the Dragonfly Doji, which is the opposite of the
            3         Gravestone Doji. The market closes at its high, after it has attempted to
                      move lower.




                  Long Legged /                        Gravestone Doji        Dragonfly Doji
                    Doji Star




                                                             85
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The Doji is a very important pattern. It is considered to be a reversal line. The Doji
         represents the area where the bulls and the bears meet.

         Let me give you a practical example.

         I am long the market and everything about the chart looks good. Suddenly, I see a
         Gravestone Doji. I interpret it as follows:

         The market was in fine form and it was moving higher, but suddenly the market
         reversed and closed right where it has opened.

         One of 3 things can happen.


                      It was just a short-term set-back and the bulls will come back to push the
            1
                      market higher. This is not so likely.

            2         We are headed into a trading range. This is more likely.


                      We have just witnessed a top in the market, maybe just a temporary one,
            3
                      but nevertheless a top. This is more likely.


         Which one of the 3 options is most likely?

         You can’t answer that without context. Did the market digest bad news? Did it hit an
         old top, which is why traders are taking profits?

         There can be many reasons for the Gravestone Doji, but if you are bullish the
         market, it is rarely a good pattern for you in the near-term. I am not suggesting that
         the Gravestone Doji will end the bullish forces forever, but more often than not, it
         means we will see sideways or lower prices for a while.




                                                             86
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Long Legged Dogi
         Let’s go through each pattern in more detail.
         We will start with the Long Legged Doji.




         Here is a good example of the warning sign that the Doji can serve you.
         The market is trending higher, but the Long Legged Doji acts as a warning sign. As a
         trader you have to consider what the market is telling you.

         In this example I would consider moving my stop-loss up on an open long position
         to just underneath the low of the Long Legged Doji. That is one possibility. Another
         is simply to take profits, if you have been long the market. A third option is to await
         more data.

         Would I sell short if I have witnessed a Long Legged Doji after an up trend? No –
         not immediately. I would like to consider the bigger picture, but I would certainly
         consider it if the bigger picture suggested it. I would prefer to see a Gravestone Doji
         if I was to sell short the market. Let’s move on to the Gravestone Doji.

                                                             87
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Gravestone Doji
         The chart below shows the same pattern as on the previous chart, but now we have
         a Gravestone Doji rather than the Long Legged Doji.

         I would be more inclined to initiate a short signal if I saw this kind of pattern. Again,
         context is very important, and I would need to see more information than what I am
         seeing here. In particular I would like to see if the market has enough weakness to
         move below the low of the Gravestone Doji.

         It is called the Gravestone because of its shape. The original thinking behind this
         pattern was that this was a sign of the end of a bullish move. It was the gravestone
         for the bulls.

         You should notice how the market is rejecting the price signified by the yellow line.
         The selling pressure forces the market back down again.




                                                                  Market rejects this level
                                                                  strong selling pressue!




                                                             88
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The Dragonfly Pattern
         This is the exact opposite of the Gravestone Doji and it is often found at market
         bottoms. Here you should notice how the strong buying pressure is moving the
         market away from the yellow line, which marks the low of the bar.




                                                                  Strong buying pressure at
                                                                  this critical support level




         I will give you a little hint, which I use in my trading. It will need some explaining, but
         here goes. You see the Dragonfly Doji? Well, imagine you were
         short the market, and you saw the market make this pattern. You would be thinking
         that this is bad news for your position.

         You may even consider moving your exit order, your stop-loss, down to just above
         the top of the high of the Dragonfly candle pattern.

         Well, if you are thinking that, then so will a lot of other traders. My tip is to place a
         Buy order where everyone else is placing their stop-loss order.

                                                             89
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The Doji Star
         The Doji Star is one of the stronger reversal patterns. It can be found at tops and
         bottoms. Here I have shown it in the context of a “pattern of three”. This means that
         you should not just look at the Doji bar. You should also look at the bar before, and
         the bar after.

         Can you see how the bar after the Doji closes above the high of the bar before the
         Doji? This is significant, and it is the reason why it is called the pattern of 3. It is
         essentially a rounded pattern, one that in this case suggests higher prices.




                                                             90
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Pattern Number 4
         The Umbrella Pattern

         At the top of the market this pattern is called a Hanging Man, but at the bottom
         of the market it is known as a Hammer. There are two distinctive variations of the
         umbrella pattern.

         The Hanging Man at a market top and The Hammer at a market bottom.


                       Hanging Man                                Hammer




         An umbrella should have a small real body with little or no upper shadow. The lower
         shadow should be 2/3 times the length of the real body. The umbrella is widely
         regarded as a reversal line but confirmation of reversal is required. The colour of the
         real-body is usually not considered to be important but I would recommend that you
         do pay attention to the direction of the closing as this gives additional weight to the
         pattern.




                                                             91
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Let’s take a look at a few examples. On the chart below the market is in a clearly
         defined up-trend. We see two strong bullish candles. Then we see
         a Hanging Man. The market shows signs of weakness and aggressively tests the
         downside. The session however closes much higher than the recorded low.

         A close below the support in the next three periods is required for a confirmation
         that the market has reversed. A break of a trend line could
         also act as a valid confirmation.




                                                                  Support




                                                             92
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The next chart shows the Hammer. The Hammer is a very important bottom
         reversal pattern. The colour of the real body is less important than for the Hanging
         Man as the market has bounced off a low in a downtrend.

         The chart shows us that strong buying has occurred, and it indicates a good level of
         support. The long shadow is indicative of the strong buying pressure.




                                         Support




                                                             93
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Pattern Number 5 & 6
         Shaven Top or Bottom Pattern


         Pattern number 5 and 6 are significant because they either have no tail on top or no
         tail on the bottom. That is why it is called “shaved”. It is a continuation pattern and
         as such I don’t put too much focus on them, but they can show weakness in a trend.




         Closes on the high           Resistance Level            Support Level   Closes on the Low




                                                             94
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Pattern Number 7
         The Marabozu Pattern

         The Marabozu Pattern is a candle line with no upper and lower shadow. The period
         opens and closes on the low and high.

         The Marabozu is very common in short term charts, especially after the release of
         economic data.


         50% Level Critical




                                                             95
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Let me show you an example of a Marabozu pattern, which I am keen
         to trade.




                             Closes right at its lows.

                             There are no shadows at all.



         The market is trending lower. It makes an attempt to push higher, but it fails. Where
         I see it fail is when the market prints that beautiful Marabozu bar. There is nothing
         but selling pressure on that bar, and I consider it a strong sell-short signal.




                                                             96
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Pattern Number 8
         The Inverted Hammer / Shooting Star Pattern


         This pattern is the direct opposite of the Umbrella Pattern. The Shooting star can be
         a powerful reversal signal in an up-trend (but only on a new high).

         An inverted hammer is indicative of a strong area of support and confirmation is
         sought prior to entering any new long positions.



                       Shooting Star                              Inverted Hammer




                                                             97
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Putting it Together
         Now that we have identified the individual classification of the various candle lines,
         we will now look at the 2-bar (session) reversal patterns. This means that we are
         looking at the context of the market, rather than just looking at one individual candle
         bar.

         In this section it is essential to understand the impact of the opening versus the
         previous session closing value as this is always a good pointer to the state of the
         market.

         If you are trading a 5-min bar, this is not relevant, but if you are looking at a daily
         chart, where each bar is 24 hours, then it does have significance.

         We also look at a little known confirmation technique which is derived from
         combining the 2 individual candles to view the candle formation as a single line.
         This enables greater understanding of changes in market sentiment.

         The Engulfing Line is one of the strongest of all the reversal patterns and it is a
         quick and effective method of spotting a change in market sentiment.




                                                             98
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




            1
                                      Close
                                                                   On Part 1 of the chart below,
                                                                   we assume the market is in a
                                                                   reasonable trend. That is essential
                                                                   for this pattern to be validated.
                                                                   On the chart below we assume the
                                                                   market is in an up-trend.



                                                Trend




            2
                      Open

                                                             Gap   On Part 2 of the chart below (to
                                                                   the right), we observe that when
                                                                   the next period opens, it opens
                                                                   higher than the previous close,
                                                                   creating a gap in the market.
                                                                   The real-bodies are obviously of
                                                                   opposite colours.




                                                              99
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         On Part 3 and Part 4 of the chart you witness the effect of this 2-bar pattern. The
         Engulfing bar alone is bearish as it is. On Part 3 of the chart you see how the body
         of the current bar engulfs the previous bar. The close of the current candle line is
         lower than the previous session open. It engulfes the whole of the last real-body.

         The shadows are not taken into consideration at this stage.



            3                                                       4




                                                      Open
                                                      Close




         Combining the 2 candles together would result in the entire session resembling a
         Shooting Star. This is what I have pointed out to you on Part 4 of the chart above.

         This technique gives additional understanding to the analysis and it suggests that
         this pattern does not require confirmation…




                                                              100
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Bullish Engulfing Pattern

         The reverse of the bearish Engulfing pattern is shown next and it is a very strong
         pattern, when you look at the 2 bars as 1. It forms a hammer. There must be a
         reasonable trend in place for this pattern to work. I like to make sure my stops
         on open positions are tight and I will be ready to reverse my position to the other
         direction.




         Like the Bearish Engulfing pattern, the Bullish Engulfing pattern can be used on its
         own, or it can be used as a 2-part candle formation.

         The latter is what I am showing you here. The current bar engulfes the previous bar,
         but combined with the bar before, it actually shows another pattern: The Hammer.
         These patterns are exceptionally powerful, and although I don't advocate always
         looking for tops and bottoms in the market, part of your education has to involve
         spotting turns in trend as soon as possible.




                                                             101
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         On the chart here you see a classical Bearish Engulfing Pattern, where the market has pushed above an old high,
         and the bullish trend looks solid. Then we see an Engulfing candle, and it sets the tone for a new bear trend.



                                                               102
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The Evolution of a Trader
         What timeframe do you want to trade?

         Do you want to trade a Tick chart, where your focus is on the smallest minute
         changes in the market. Maybe you want to be a traditional 5-min chart trader, or
         maybe you want to look at longer timeframes, such as the hourly or daily chart.

         Your evolution as a trader is partly to discover what time frame you want to trade,
         and trade the trend of your time frame accordingly.

         The reason I am bringing this up at this stage is to let you know that whatever
         timeframe you want to trade, you can use Candlecharts for it. It is as simple as
         that. I always intended for this book to be as practical as possible. Therefore I want
         to give you some practical trading tips and strategies that I use or have used with
         great success.



         The Fake Moves
         When I started out trading I was keen to sell break-outs and buy break-outs. It took
         me a while to realise that more often than not the market would pull me into a trade,
         by breaking above the previous high or below the previous low, only to reverse in the
         other direction.

         The realisation came when I sat in a seminar myself some time back. I was staring
         at a chart image on a very large screen, which probably helped accentuate the
         visualisation of the chart.

         It was a trading epiphany when I realised how often the market tends to test
         previous highs or lows, only to reverse back into the range.

         I went through thousands of past charts to enhance my understanding of this
         pattern, which I call Fake-Out and Fake-Down. It works very well in so many time
         frames.


                                                             103
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Fake-Out & Fake-Down


                                                                   Target




                                                                                     Buy




                                                    Fake Down                        Stop




                                                                              Stop




                                                                                Sell




                                                                     Target




                                                             104
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Engulfing Patterns for Day-Trading
         The Engulfing pattern is a candle bar where the price action measured by the BODY
         of the current bar engulfs the body of the previous bar. I like using them on a 10-min
         time frame or higher on indices such as the FTSE, the DAX (although the two are
         highly correlated), as well as the SP500 and the Dow.

         They work great as a reversal signal or continuation signal. They tell us exactly
         where to enter. They tell us how much to risk on the trade.

         What does the Engulfing Pattern look like?

         I have displayed a Bullish Engulfing Pattern below. What you should notice is that
         the green bar’s length engulfes the entire previous candle.




                                                             105
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         There are 3 potential entry criteria, which depends on how much certainty the
         traders wants in the set-up.


                      Aggressively enter the market on the assumption an Engulfing pattern
            1         is being formed. If the trader enters the market on the assumption that
                      an Engulfing bar will print, and it fails to do so, the trader should exit the
                      trade.

            2         Normal entry method – waiting for the Engulfing pattern to complete.

                      Cautious method – waiting for next bar to trade through the high/low of
            3
                      the Engulfing bar.




         The above example is not perfect, but it serves to show the concept quite well. A
         move above the Engulfing Bar triggers a buy signal.

         You can either time your entry with an order just above the high of the Engulfing
         Bar, or you can simply execute the trade yourself manually, the moment you see the
         market push above the high of the Engulfing bar.


                                                             106
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         I like the example above because when you are trading a 10-min chart, you are not
         in a big rush. This trade takes a while to work out, but it works well.




                                                             107
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         I like the example previous because I realise I made a mistake. I meant to highlight
         another part of the chart with a square. The area I have highlighted is a valid
         Engulfing Bar, but I meant to highlight another one as well.

         Can you see it? It sets up a buy-signal. It comes 8 bars after the two I put a box
         around, and it shows a set-up, which ends the correction against the trend.




         The chart above shows an Engulfing bar. The market has already moved down a bit.

         Many traders would be scared to sell short a market that has already fallen
         significantly. I call these long bars Road Map bars. If you are concerned about the
         size of your stop-loss, then trade it in smaller size.

         Now the next chart is important. It is important because I don’t want you to think
         that all set-ups are winners. One of the most important components of trading is
         how you handle your losses. Do you let them run out of control, or are you in control
         of them?




                                                             108
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                              Bar 1


         On the chart above, the market is trending lower. If we call the lowest bar on the
         chart, bar number 1, then you can follow my thoughts.

         Bar no 1 is red, and it is the lowest bar.

         Bar no 2 is green. It is a very positive bar. There is no tail on either side of the body.
         It closes very strongly. Bar no 3 is red. Bar no 4 is green.

         Bar no 5 is red, and the body of bar no 5 engulfs the body of bar no 4. This is an
         Engulfing Bar setup, and I short the market. As the trend is down, this makes good
         sense. As you can see, I am stopped out very quickly.

         I was wrong.




                                                             109
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Exit Criteria for Engulfing Pattern
         The exit can be done in one of several ways, but remember that the aim is to be on
         board a “runner”, so taking a profit should not be because some monetary criteria
         has been met.

         If the market immediately runs in the anticipated direction, the trader should move
         the stop-loss to break even.

         If a trending move develops, the trader can move the stop loss progressively in the
         direction of the trend.

         If another candle pattern forms, such as a doji, signifying a potential trend reversal,
         the trader should tighten the stop loss.

         If volume spikes into previous support or resistance, it would be wise to keep the
         stop tight or take profit.

         Otherwise, try keeping the position open, and above all, have patience. A good
         Engulfing set-up on a 10-min chart can easily last a full hour or more.




                                                             110
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Understanding Chart Time Frames
         I use two charting packages. One is a paid-for service, which I use for research.
         I don’t recommend you invest in a charting package. These days the brokers you
         trade with have excellent charting tools, and they cost nothing.

         The other is the free charting application provided by my broker. As I said, it "costs
         nothing", and it is perfect for my daily trading needs. Please do not use money on
         subscribing to a charting package.




                                                             111
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The Time Scale on a Chart
         Each bar or candle on the chart tells you the open, the high, the low and the close
         for the time frame you have chosen. So, if you have chosen a 10-min time frame,
         you get the open, high, low and close for that 10-min segment.

         When I go through my morning routine (discussed in the chapter “Daily Work
         Routine”), I go through the several timeframes of the currency pair.


         The Time Frames

         Weekly Chart


         It is superb for the “great overview”. I put a charting tool called a moving average
         on to make it easier on my eyes to find the trend.

         When I use a moving average for trend detection, I use the 89-period moving
         average. If the market is trading above 89MA, I deem the trend to be up on that
         time frame.

         If it is not possible to say if the market is trending above or below the 89MA on
         say the weekly chart, then I must accept that the market is not trending.




                                                             112
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Daily Chart


         The daily chart is a vital part of the daily work process because I use it for my 3-day
         rule. It is great for trend identification. I will teach you the 3-day rule next.



                           These two timeframes are great for swing trading, and for identifying
          1-hour &
                           patterns over longer time periods. It is also great for identifying
           4-hour
                           support and resistance.

                           It is a good timeframe to trade from, which can cover both the short-
           15 min          term and the longer-term. I use the 10-min and the 15-min after I have
                           done all my preparation for the day.

                           I frequently go down to a 5-min or a 1-min if I am looking for
            Lower
                           an entry. It means I already know I want to execute a trade,
            Time
           Frames          but I am attempting to gauge the market for obvious strength
                            or weakness.




                                                             113
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         A Special Note on Scalping
         When I go about my day-to-day business, scalping and short-term trading stock
         indices, I always do it on a 5-min chart. Let me give you an example of a worksheet
         from earlier today.

         The red bar marked with black lines was a place I sold short. It was an Engulfing
         bar. I was stopped out soon after. When an Engulfing bar fails, you often get a move
         in the other direction. I went long. It paid off.




                                                             114
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Trade Entry Technique
         4 Bar Fractal

         The 4-bar fractal is a simple measure of a turning point. It is mechanical, so it is
         easy to explain and easy to implement. It is reliable, but don’t expect miracles. It will
         catch some sustained trend moves, but you will also have your fair share of small
         losses and small wins, because you get stopped out.

         As the name implies, it is composed of 4 candles (or bars). It works in any time
         frame. The longer the time frame you are viewing it on, the more of an impact the
         signal is likely to have.

         The 4-bar fractal is one of the most solid trend change indicators I know of. I owe it
         to Dr David Paul for introducing this to me.




                                                             115
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         There are 2 conditions to the technique.

         Buy Signal


                      The CLOSE of the current bar (1) must be higher than the HIGH of the
            1
                      previous bar (2).

                      The CLOSE on this bar (1) must be higher than the HIGH of the bar three
            2
                      bars back (4).


            3         If those conditions are met, we have a BUY SIGNAL.



         Sell Signal


                      The CLOSE of the current bar (1) must be lower than the LOW of the
            1
                      previous bar (2).

                      The CLOSE on this bar (1) must be lower than the LOW of the bar three
            2
                      bars back (4).


            3         If those conditions are met, we have a SELL SIGNAL.




         You should be able to see from the chart below how the fractal works. It is simple,
         but who said that it had to be complicated for it to make money?

         You should be able to see that bar 1 closed above bar 2. Bar 1 also closed above
         bar 4.

         The moment bar 1 is complete, and has fulfilled the criteria, I have a buy signal.


                                                             116
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                         Let me show you a close-up of
                                                         the chart above, in case you
                                                         don’t see it so clearly:


                                                                        117
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         How does it work if it is a reversal from an        Again, let me show you a
         up-trend to a downtrend?                            close-up of the sell signal:

         This is explained on this graph. Here we
         have a sell signal.
                                                                   118
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Divergence Strategies
         The 4-bar fractal is an excellent tool used in conjunction with other techniques.
         One such technique is a “Divergence Strategy”.

         The Divergence Strategy was actually invented by a trader from J.P Morgan.
         Sadly, I don’t remember his name. I apologise to the man.




                                                             119
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         In order to explain what a Divergence Strategy is, I want to show you what it is not.

         I have taken a chart of the Dow Jones Index on a 5-min chart. I have put a tool
         called an Oscillator on the chart. I have chosen the Stocastics Oscillator.

         As the market moves up and down, so too does the Oscillator. What you should be
         able to see on the chart below is that when the market makes a new high, so too
         does the Oscillator, or at least it makes it up to its last high. This is normal.




         Now, let me show you an example, where you see something which is not normal.
         We call that “Divergence”.

                                                             120
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The Dow is trending lower, and we see a lower high on the price chart.
         On the Oscillator we see that the corresponding lines are making a higher high. This
         is called a Divergence, and when we see that, we have a pretty good idea what will
         happen next. The market is ready to continue in the direction of the trend.

         This is where the 4-bar fractal can come handy. We have had a warning from the
         Divergence and now we are waiting for the market to confirm it. This could be in the
         form of a 4-bar fractal sell signal.

                                                             121
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         On this page there are two SELL SHORT signals, that I haven’t identified for you. Can you find them yourself?

         I see 3 signals on this chart using the 4-bar tractal technique, using a 4-hour chart. I have marked the 2nd one.
         Can you see the first one and the third one?

                                                                 122
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Divergence studies are a fine way to time the market. Here I have used a 4-bar fractal to time my entry, while
         having a Divergence between the stochastics indicator and price confirming the entry.



                                                                 123
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Sterling Dollar in an up-trend on the 4-hour chart and the Divergence sets up a buy-signal, which is confirmed by
         the 4-bar fractal.

                                                                124
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The 4-hour trend is pointing lower. The Sterling Dollar chart sets up a sell-short signal using the Divergence and
         the 4-bar fractal takes care of the entry.

                                                                 125
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Sterling Dollar sets up a sell using the Divergence and the 4-bar fractal takes care of the entry signal.

                                                                  126
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Managing your Risk
         Risk management means how you allocate your trading capital. I suspect
         quite a few people’s eyes glaze over with boredom, when they hear about risk
         management.


         However, it would not be professional of me to write a trading manual and
         not discuss it. I will keep it short and sweet.


         Trade Preparation


         You can make your life as a trader easy by following some simple rules.
         Don’t ever trade without a stop loss.


         There you have it. It is simple, and it is most likely the most important rule of
         all. It is also the rule that most people break.




                                                             127
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         You need to consider these 5 points when you want to place a trade:



            1         What is your proposed entry price?


            2         What is your proposed stop-loss?


            3         How much do you want to risk per point?


            4         How big is your account?


            5         What percentage are you risking?



         Example


         My account is £1,000.

         I want to risk 5% of my account per trade = £50
         I want to buy DAX at 7920. My stop loss is 7910.

         Therefore, I will buy £5 per point.




                                                             128
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Example


         My account is £1,000

         I want to risk 1% of my account per trade = £10
         I want to buy Sterling Dollar at 1.5525.
         My stop loss is 1.5515. My risk is 10 points.

         Therefore, I will buy £1 per point.


         It is as simple as that. No one can decide for you how much to risk on a trade. I can
         tell you that the more you risk, the more you will make when you win, but you will
         also statistically blow up your account.

         I recommend that you start your trading risk at 1% or 2%. That is a good place to
         start to learn from. Part of the trading journey is to decide for yourself what kind of
         trader you are. Do you like high risk trading? Are you prudent? Are you aggressive?
         Do you add to winning positions?

         So many questions to think of and many you can’t answer until you have some
         experience under your belt. We need to get you started, and then many of those
         questions will answer themselves.


         Managing the Trade

         There are three main ways of managing the trade and traders argue about the
         virtues of each at every occasion. I will discuss these in turn and let you make up
         your mind. Managing the trade is a personal philosophy rather than any form of
         mathematically defined concept.




                                                             129
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Scaling Out

         In this the trader exits part of the position as the position gets into profit.
         The concept gets support from Mark Douglas in his book “Trading in the Zone”.
         Douglas and many others reckon that the trader should exit a third of the position
         after a few points have been made.

         In the context of the four-hour chart in forex about 20 points. Douglas then instructs
         to exit the next third at the next significant high and at that point, get the stop up to
         entry. Douglas then instructs that the third and remaining third can be let run to the
         target.

         The scaling out system is used by most traders in some form or other. Many would
         exit the second third well before the old high was encountered and would have got
         their stop to entry after a move of 40 points in their direction.

         Many would exit the first third at plus 20 points, exit the second third at plus 40
         points, get the stop to entry and let the remaining run.

         This is emotionally quite easy to do as most of these trades on the four-hour chart
         using my rules will go at least 40 points.

         The problem with the scaling out method is that when you are wrong, the big hit
         is taken with the whole position, while the big win is taken with only a third of
         the position. Nevertheless, this is how I believe that you should start with this
         methodology.

         I will for clarity and honesty tell you that this is not how I trade. My philosophy
         is that either you want to be in the market, or you don’t want to be in the market.
         The idea of taking half off your position or a third off a position is in my mind a
         psychological limitation rather than a trading strategy. I will discuss this more under
         the psychology section.




                                                             130
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Scaling In

         Here the trader starts with a small position and adds as the position goes his or her
         way. This has the advantage that the loss, if the trade is not a success, is taken with
         only a small position while the profitable big winner is taken with a much bigger
         position.

         The downside is that a sudden reversal can turn a 100-point profit into a loss. This
         is hard to take emotionally. I believe that to add successfully the first add must be
         a place on the chart where the stop can be brought up to entry on the first position.
         This is also the stop on the second position. This means that the initial small risk
         does not increase.

         It’s important to note that most of the very successful traders that I know who hold
         positions overnight to a week all believe strongly in adding to winners. It brings the
         success rate down markedly and frequently 75-point winners turn into losers.

         These traders have got to a point emotionally where that does not matter, as the
         gigantic profits that they make on the 40% of trades that go a long way more than
         make up for this.

         I am positive that the longer the timeframe that is traded the more important adding
         to a position becomes. In the four-hour chart consider adding at a profit of 75
         points.

         This means we double the position here and get the stop to entry. If profits are
         taken at 150 points than we have made 225 points in total for a risk of 75 points.

         This means the risk to reward has gone up to 3 from the norm of 2 from a 150-point
         profit. This makes a vast difference to your bottom line over a year’s trading.




                                                             131
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Demo Accounts

         I am not a fan of demo accounts except for when I need to learn a new platform.
         Then I practice how to execute trades. I also practice the use of the stop-loss
         function and how to use the limit order system. Beyond that there is no use for a
         demo platform for me. For you however, there are some obvious advantages and
         some not so obvious disadvantages.


         Advantages of a demo account:

                      You get to know the trading platform and can practice
            1         executing trades and orders without being concerned about making
                      mistakes.

            2         You are trading fictitious money.



            3         It is a great place to practice a trading technique.



            4         It is a great place to learn about charting.



         Disadvantage of demo account:

                      The purpose of trading is to make money. Using a demo account is not
            1         the real thing, which means you won’t know how you will handle the
                      pressure of real trading with real money on the line, until you make the
                      switch.

                      It is easy to get lulled into a fall sense of satisfaction by using demo
            2         accounts, and then think it will be easy to replicate the success once you
                      start the real thing.




                                                             132
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         At a trading conference I was asked the following question by a delegate. “Do you
         recommend the use of demo accounts?”

         I answered that demo accounts are great for several reasons, including getting
         used to a new trading platform and its functionalities, trying out new strategies and
         maybe just getting the taste for trading in the first place.

         I went on to say that I wasn’t a fan of demo accounts beyond the reasons
         mentioned above. I stated that demo accounts take out the emotional sting of
         trading, which gives a false psychological profile of successful trading.

         I argued that it is a good idea to start with a demo account, but as soon as you
         are comfortable with the platform, you should begin to think about opening a real
         account. You can start off with a small account, work your way up by increasing
         your stake size as your experience grows.

         I told the delegates a story about a client of mine, a 20-year old medical student
         from Copenhagen University, who had spent a month trading Euro Dollar intra-day
         for 5-6 hours a day.

         By the time he started with a real account, he already felt fairly confident with his
         way of trading, and he did very well for himself, because he kept doing on his real
         account what he had done on his demo account. I think he made 180,000 Danish
         Kroners on a 25,000 kroner account over 4 months.

         If this is your intention, to train yourself to execute trades, one after another, using
         a specific system, then you have my blessing. It takes a tremendous amount of
         discipline to treat a demo account as if it was the real deal. He could do it, but I
         am not sure many can.




                                                             133
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Forex Markets & Forex Trading
         Introduction to Forex Markets

         The Forex market, also called the currency market, is the most actively traded asset
         class in the world, with trillions of dollars exchanged every day. It trades 24 hours a
         day, from Sunday afternoon London time, to Friday night.

         It opens in New Zealand when currency traders come to work Monday morning their
         time (Sunday night in London) and it closes Friday evening when the traders in New
         York and the rest of the US heads off for the weekend.


         In those 5 days it doesn’t stop trading!




                                                             134
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         There is no central exchange where you trade Forex. It is not like the stock market,
         where the US has their NASDAQ exchange and their New York Stock Exchange,
         and Britain has its London Stock Exchange. Instead the Forex market is traded
         electronically, and it is truly global.

         Major banks and brokerages all over the world make a market in currencies,
         providing a buy price and a sell price for their customers. They are called liquidity
         providers. They tend to have operations all over the world, so when members of
         staff go home in London, the staff in New York take over.

         It is very easy to trade Forex, and there are so many different currency pairs you can
         choose from. Most traders tend to focus their efforts on following just a handful of
         currencies, and it is usually the major currency pairs they trade, like Euro Dollar.



         How to Get Started

         You will need a trading account. Contact me if you want a name of a good broker,
         who you can trust.

         When I say it is easy to trade Forex, I don’t want you to misunderstand me. “Easy”
         does not equal “easy to make money”. What I mean by easy is that the mechanical
         process for placing trades is easy. However, making money from trading is not easy,
         but you are in the right hands. I will guide you to a place of competence so that the
         chance of fulfilling your goal of making money has been significantly improved.

         You can trade VERY small size while you are learning how to trade. That means you
         don’t have to be concerned so much about your profits or your losses to begin with.
         The importance is on learning. You can even open a demo account to begin with to
         get the hang of the platform.




                                                             135
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Forex Trading Action Plan
         You will need an action plan to guide you through the first months of trading. It
         will reduce your learning curve and it will provide you with structure in a rather un-
         structured environment.

         What do I mean when I say it is unstructured? Well, look at the facts: there is no
         opening time, there is no closing time, and you can trade as often as you want with
         as much money as you can personally afford, with unlimited risk to yourself and
         operating in an environment where you eat what you kill.

         There is no regulation (although your broker is of course regulated), and the rules of
         the game changes every day, sometimes many times during the day.
         I am going to provide you with some structure to your trading and train you to slowly
         navigate your way around the market. Easy does it, to begin with.

         Trading is simple, but it is not easy. To put it differently, it is easy to open a trading
         account and begin buying and selling currencies, but if you don’t know what you are
         doing, then the odds are high that you will not last very long and that you will lose
         your money. We don’t want that to happen.

         The action plan is a guide to your first steps in the markets. The best thing you can
         do for yourself is to read this manual from cover to cover, and then go back to the
         individual points and action them, as and when you are ready.

         I have covered everything you need to get off to a brilliant start. I have given away
         the secrets of how I trade myself. This is a not a beginner’s manual or an advanced
         manual. It is simply a manual for profitable trading.




                                                             136
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Details of Action Plan




            1         Read the manual from cover to cover.


                      Open a trading account with a broker. I will send you some suggestions, if
            2
                      you haven’t already received it in your email inbox.


            3         Begin applying the techniques.


            4         Start trading small.




                                                             137
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Basic Facts of the Forex Market
         Here are some of the facts about currencies that are useful to know.


                       A currency is a country’s means of exchanging goods and services
            1
                       within its own borders and abroad. The money exchanged is called their
                       currency. In Denmark for example it is called Danish Kroners. In England
                       it is British Pounds.

                      The exchange rate is the price for which you can exchange money in one
            2
                      currency into the money from another country.




                                                             138
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                  The major currencies of the world are:




                      Code                                   Name


                  USD                                 American Dollars

                  GBP                                 British Pounds

                  JPY                                 Japanese Yen

                  EUR                                 The Euro for members of the European Union

                  CHF                                 Swiss Franc

                  NZD                                 New Zealand Dollars

                  AUD                                 Australian Dollars

                  CAD	                                Canadian Dollars




                                                              139
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                  Some currencies are traded more than others. The major currency
                  pairs are called The Majors.

                  They are as follows:



                     Name                                    Code    Symbol

                  Sterling Dollar                     GBPUSD        £$
                  Dollar Swiss                        USDCHF        $ CHF
                  Dollar Yen                          USDJPY        $¥
                  Euro Dollar                         EURUSD        €$




                  The minor currency pairs are numerous.

                  Here are a few examples:



                     Name                                    Code

                  Sterling Yen                        GBPJPY
                  Euro Swiss                          EURCHF
                  Sterling Swiss                      GBPCHF




                                                              140
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The Way Forex is Quoted
         How is a currency pair quoted? What does it mean if you are seeing Euro Dollar
         traded at 1.3345? How does the Forex market set the prices? These are some of the
         questions we will look at now.

         Let’s look at the way a currency is quoted.

         If we stay with Euro Dollar, then it is made up of two currencies, namely the Euro
         and the US Dollar. In the Forex market it would be described as EURUSD.

         The Forex market operates with two rates. There is the Base rate and the Quote
         rate.


         Example 1 - EURUSD


         EUR is the base rate                         USD is the quoted rate

         The price will describe how much ONE unit of the base rate will buy you of
         the quoted rate

         EUR USD = 1.3350

         This means that it will cost you $1.3350 to buy 1 Euro




                                                             141
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Example 2 - GBPUSD


         GBPUSD trades at 1.5535

         Base rate is GBP                             Quote rate is USD

         For ONE unit of Pound, you get 1.5535 US Dollars.

         So, if you spend £10 (ten British Pounds) on buying US Dollars,
         you will receive £10 x 1.5535 = $15.53.




         Example 3 - GBPEUR


         GBPEUR trades at 1.15

         Therefore, One British Pound will buy you €1.15




                                                             142
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Advanced Exchange Rate Example
         In the last example we used the exchange rate between the British Pound and the
         Euro. What if you have one Euro, and you want to exchange it to GBP, how much will
         you receive?

         Reciprocal rate =
         Inverting the exchange rate, so Base rate becomes
         Quote rate, and Quote rate becomes the Base rate.




         Answer: one divided by exchange rate = reciprocal rate

         1/1.15 = 0.8695

         The answer is that one Euro (€1) = £0.8695

         If this reminds you a little too much of the math classes you are trying hard to forget
         from school days gone by, then please don’t despair. You do NOT need to know this
         to trade Forex. I am just telling you how the Forex market is put together.




                                                             143
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Practical Forex Trading Terminology
         How are your Profits or Losses Calculated?

         Currencies are traded as “pips”. A pip is the smallest fluctuation you can see in the
         exchange rate.


         For example,

         GBPUSD = 1.5546

         One pip increase = 1.5547

         One pip decrease = 1.5545

         As a currency trader you want to make as many pips as possible. The value of the
         pip depends on how much you have risked. We will look at “pip”
         size now.




                                                             144
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Value of the Pip
         The value of the pip is decided by you. You decide how much you want to risk per
         pip. The more you want to risk, the bigger the account you need. It all depends on
         your appetite for risk and the size of your account.

         In the example below, you risk £1 per pip. If you read this manual, and you are based
         in another country, say Portugal or Singapore or Norway, you simply take one unit
         of your local currency, rather than what I have done in this example, which is to use
         Sterling Pounds.


                  Risk: £1 per pip

                  Price of GBPUSD: 1.5546

                  Action: You buy GBPUSD at 1.5546

                  Later the price is: 1.5596

                  Action: you sell GBPUSD at 1.5596

                  You made 50 pips. Your profit is calculated as follows

                  Closing Price minus Open Price = pips made (or lost)

                  Profit or loss = pips made (or lost) * risk per pip


                  Your trade looks as follows:

                  1.5596 minus 1.5546 = 50 pips

                  50 pips x £1 = you made £50



                                                             145
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Quick Guide to Spread Betting / Trading
         Spread betting / spread trading is an easy and cost-efficient way to enter and exit
         the financial markets. I have traded with many different companies. It is suitable for
         all levels, from the absolute beginner to the hardened professional.


         Uniqueness of Spread Betting / Trading

         Spread betting is unique in the sense that you are not trading with contracts or lots.
         You nominate your own trading size whenever you trade, and you ALWAYS trade in
         your own currency.

         If you live in England you trade in Sterling, and if you live in Denmark you trade in
         Danish Kroners. If you live in the European Union, you will place your trades in Euros.

         Let’s take an example from a trading platform I use. You trade the Euro Yen, i.e. the
         Euro against the Japanese Yen. Here I am trading £1 per point, which means I will
         risk £1 for every point the market moves up or down. I have set a stop loss at 35
         points, meaning I am risking £35.

         You can trade much more than just currencies. You can trade individual stocks,
         stock indices (my favourite), commodities like gold and oil and even government
         bonds.

         Whether you trade currencies or stock indices or commodities, it works exactly in
         the same way. You nominate how much you want to risk per pip movement, and
         that is all you have to worry about.




                                                             146
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         I am going to go through some examples on how to place trades. I have sneaked
         in some examples from stock indices as well, just so you can see that the principle
         of spread betting/spread trading is the same, irrespectively if you are trading
         currencies, or individual stocks or commodities or bonds or stock indices.

         You nominate your risk per point, and then you simply buy or sell.



                                                             147
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Example of a Trade on a Stock Index
         DAX (called Germany 30) is trading at 7921-7922


         7921              The price to sell short or to close a buy trade.

         7922              The price to buy or to close a sell short trade.


         You think DAX will move higher. You bring up the DAX trading ticket, and in the
         “stake size” you put £10. You then click “BUY” at the price of 7922.


         Later the price is 7932-7933

         You close the trade at 7932.

         You have made 7932 minus 7922 = 10 points

         You risked £10 per point.


         Your profit is £100.

         If you live in say Norway, you may have put your stake size as
         NOK 100 per point.

         Your profit would have been 10 points times your stake size of
         NOK100 = NOK1.000




                                                             148
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         What If You Had Done The Opposite?
         You sold short DAX at 7921.
         You had to buy it back at 7933.

         Your loss is 7921 – 7933 = 12 points


         12 points * £10 = £120 loss


         Notes:

         The examples shown illustrate perfectly the merit of trading with any spread betting
         broker or any CFD trading platform. The process is 100% identical, whatever product
         you are trading. Forgive me for the banality of the example but imagine the price of
         7921 – 7922 is the price for an orange.

         If I think the price of an orange will rise from 7922, I can place a trade on the orange,
         betting on the direction of the price of the orange.

         The point I am trying to make is that the principle is universal. Once you understand
         one trading ticket, where you execute your trade, you understand them all.




                                                             149
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         What Makes Markets Move?
         As a trader we are looking for markets that move. What makes the currency
         markets move? What makes the commodity markets move?

         Who buys and sells in the currency markets? While you don’t need to know who is in
         the market to make money from the markets, a little background into, for example,
         the currency markets won’t go amiss.

         Global corporations operate in the market. Ford Motor sells cars all over
         the world. They receive money in many different currencies, which they
         then convert into US Dollars on the currency market.

         Hedge funds speculate on the direction of currencies to generate profits. Central
         banks operate too in the currency market for various reasons, such as supporting
         their own currency.

         All these corporations and banks and hedge funds meet in the markets to conduct
         their business. Some are there to speculate. Some are there to convert profits from
         car sales overseas. Some are there to support their country’s currency. This is what
         makes a market.




                                                             150
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Advanced Concepts of Currency Trading
         A currency represents a way of conducting transactions in a country. The British
         Pound will allow you to buy goods and services when you are in the UK. If you live
         in the UK, and you want to travel to the US, you will exchange your British Pounds to
         US Dollars. You do so using the exchange rate between GBP and USD.

         What determines the price of a currency pair, like GBP USD?

         The answer is: Demand and supply.

         There is no other factor. It is simply the flow of buying and selling which determines
         the price of a currency pair.

         There are several things which can make currency speculators sit up and pay close
         attention. Before I can go into that, I need to explain a concept to you. It is called the
         “Carry Trade”.

         When you put money into your bank account, you will earn interest on your money.
         When you borrow money from a bank, you must pay the bank interest. This is the
         same all over the world.

         Whether you live in New York or in Copenhagen or Paris or anywhere else we all
         must pay interest on money we borrow, and we receive interest on money we lend
         to the bank (our bank deposits).

         However, interest rates are not the same all over the world. Some countries have
         very low interest rates. In those countries it is cheap to borrow money. In some
         countries it is expensive to borrow money, and correspondingly you receive much
         more interest on your bank deposit than you do in the countries with low interest
         rates. Imagine you can borrow money in one country very cheaply, and then convert
         them to another currency, and put them in a bank account in that country. Then you
         would make money, due to the interest rate differential.




                                                             151
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         For example, back in 2004 you could borrow money in Japan at 0.50% interest a
         year. You could then convert the money to New Zealand Dollars and put them into
         a bank account in New Zealand and earn 8% in interest a year. Your net profit would
         be 7.5% a year. Not bad for doing very little. That is called a “Carry Trade”. However,
         it is not risk free! It would be risk free if the interest rate stayed the same in both
         countries forever, and if the exchange rate between Japan and New Zealand stayed
         the same. But things change. The markets don’t stand still.



         Market Movers in the Forex Market
         A central bank of a country will always keep an eye on its own currency vis-à-vis
         its trading partners. If its currency becomes too expensive, then the goods and
         services offered of the country becomes unaffordable for foreign trading partners,
         and subsequently demand falls, leading to unemployment and loss of ability to
         compete in the international market.

         Currency traders are found to pay close attention to what central banks are saying.
         When a central bank spokesperson makes comments on the country’s interest rate,
         it can have a profound effect on the Forex market. Every week there is economic
         news released by government agencies all over the world. This can often have
         a huge impact on the flow of the Forex Market. This is because the news will be
         interpreted as being good or bad for the country’s ability to compete in the world of
         commerce, and Forex traders attempt to capitalise on the new information.


         Example


         On the 25th April at 09:30 we were expecting the quarterly preliminary GDP figures
         from the UK. The market was expecting 0.1%, but instead the number was 0.3%.




                                                             152
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The result of the economic news release affected the exchange rate between the UK and the US profoundly. The
         next chart shows what happened to the GBPUSD rate immediately after the news release.




                                                              153
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Chart of Sterling Dollar, with the effect of the economic number released at 09:30am on the 25th April circled in
         RED. The market was surprised by the strength of the UK economy and immediately began buying Pounds and
         selling US Dollar. The chart is moving up, indicating that you get more US Dollars for your one unit of British Pound.




                                                                 154
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Other things that are watched by Forex traders are when Central Banks set interest
         rates. The interest rates in a country has an impact on its currency and is rated
         against other currencies.



         What Drives Intra-Day Movements
         in the Forex Market?
            1         Commercial firms buying or selling.

            2         Day traders and trend traders speculating on the direction of the market.

            3         Hedge funds taking positions.

            4         Pension funds taking positions.



         Summary: Currency Movements



            1         Interest rates and news have a big impact on currency trends.


                      Often currency trading is driven by what traders expect will happen in the
            2
                      future.


            3         Currency traders will listen very carefully to central bank announcements.




                                                             155
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Case Stories & New Entry Techniques
         David the Swing Trader
         David doesn’t want to sit and watch the screen all day. He has other things to do
         with his time, so he carefully chooses the times when he watches the charts.
         He prefers to watch the currency market in the morning and again in the evening.

         He uses a 4-hour chart and a 1-hour chart. There he is looking for currencies that
         are likely to continue the trend. If they aren’t trending (range bound) he leaves them
         alone.

         When he spots areas where he would like to buy or sell, he inputs orders into the
         trading platform. He places an entry order, a stop-loss order and sometimes even
         a limit order. He then checks his position again in the evening.

         David makes use of the 4-hour chart to spot Confluences. He analyses the charts
         to identify places where the odds of a successful trade are high.




                                                             156
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Example on the following page


         David views the Euro Sterling 15-min chart and sees that there was a retracement in
         the most recent rally at point 1. He copies the line from point 1 and places it on the
         top of the most recent rally. This is point 2.

         Now he sees that if Euro retraces by the same amount as at point 1, then Euro EUR
         should hit the price of 0.8945. This technique is called a Harmonic Retracement
         technique.

         David now places a buy order at 0.8945.

         All David can now do is wait. He reviews the chart a couple of times a day. He
         repeats this process with the handful of currencies he is following.

         David’s story is an example of how you can make trading work for you even though
         you have other commitments.

         There are those who would say that David gets the best of both worlds, because he
         is not there to watch the market move up and down during the day, so he doesn’t
         get emotionally invested in the charts, like so many traders do, leading to over-
         trading.




                                                             157
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             158
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Case Story:
         Stanley the Intraday Trader
         Stanley sits and watches the markets for large parts of the day. He is a day-
         trader. Although the term day-trader means something different, depending on
         who you ask, for Stanley it means that he attempts to profit from shorter-term
         price movements during the day.It also means that Stanley rarely holds a position
         overnight. It is not unlikely, especially if he is sat on a good profit, but he likes to
         close all his positions before he finishes for the day. Stanley has many different
         tools he makes use of. One of those is the trendline break after a fake-out. It usually
         trades' a handful of times during the day. He trades it on some of the more volatile
         currencies such as the Euro Yen, the Sterling Dollar and the Euro Dollar.

         He uses a 1-min chart to identify the pattern. He is looking for 3 or 4 tops, where
         he can easily draw a connecting line, touching all tops. He is also looking for the
         market to go below an old low (for buys), and then reverse back up again, and break
         the trend line. Once he is in a position, he places a stop below the last low. If this
         low is further away than he likes, he reduces his stake size. Because Stanley trades
         quite frequently, he doesn’t like to risk more than 1% of his account. Otherwise
         he exposes himself too much to wild swings in his account. Stanley uses several
         screens, so he can follow more than one currency pair at a time. Although the
         technique is simple, it is very efficient.

         However, if he gets a sense that the market is range-bound, and not likely to trend,
         he attempts to spot it early and stays clear of the market. He also stays clear taking
         positions before important economic news is released in the market. You can find
         an example on this simple intra-day technique on the next page.

         Trading is about finding what works for you. It takes time, but the longer you can
         stay in this game without blowing up your account, the more likely you are to find
         what works for you. Take your time. A masterpiece is not made in a hurry. It takes
         time. There will be set-backs. Expect it and persevere.




                                                             159
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         This chart shows a simple trendline entry technique coupled with a fake-out to the downside. This is a
         one-minute chart of Euro Yen.



                                                                160
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Trading Psychology
         If you are new to trading, you will learn soon enough that it can be a demanding
         business. I have written a book on trading psychology.
         I will show you some extracts from it here.

         When you write a blog about a subject, or a book for that matter, you inevitably write
         from the heart. You write about a topic as you see the topic. You don’t write how
         other people see the world.

         This presents a problem when you are writing about the inner workings of your
         psyche. Your inner composition is so unique and so intimate to you. Sure there
         are probably people who think like you, act like you, behave like you, and respond
         like you, in broad strokes, but you as an individual are unique, one in 7 billion (or
         however many people living on planet Earth).

         Many people before me have written about trading psychology. Some are traders,
         and some are not. Just because you are not a trader doesn’t mean you can’t
         contribute to a trader’s development. The flipside is that being a trader doesn’t
         necessarily qualify you to talk about the trader’s mind.

         I put the word trader in quote mode, because I want to emphasise the notion that
         I have of a trader. He or she is bright and alert, and knows himself and trusts his
         instincts and his abilties.

         I have read all I could get my hands on in the world of trading psychology. The first
         book I read was by a Danish investor, who I subsequently got to know well. He didn’t
         strike me as a “trader”, but more as an investor.




                                                             161
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The second book I read was not so much a book on trading psychology, but
         it certainly was written by a “trader”. Marty Schwartz wrote Pit Bull, which
         is an entertaining read. I don’t think I learnt much from it and apart from the
         entertainment value of it, I would not necessarily recommend it as a must-read.

         My favourite trading book is written by a journalist called William Fallon. It is the
         story of the legendary bond trader Charlie D. Now there is a trader I aspire to be
         like. The problem is that Fallon doesn’t talk much about what Charlie struggled with
         and how he overcame his struggles. So we are left guessing how to become the
         greatest bond trader ever.

         Of course, you can always turn to Reminiscences of a Stock Operator, written by
         Lefevre about Jesse Livermore. I recommend the book, and it certainly has plenty of
         pearls of wisdom to keep you reading from cover to cover.

         There is just one problem. Jesse Livermore was a blow-up artist. He always went
         ALL IN, and he lived through plenty of personal booms and busts, the last bust
         culminating with him blowing his brains out at a hotel in New York.

         Still, just because the man killed himself, supposedly because he was bust again
         (but that is being disputed), doesn’t mean you can’t learn from his words and
         actions. I mean, we don’t stop reading Hemmingway or listen to Nirvana just
         because they killed themselves.

         This brings me to the more hardcore literature of trading psychology. My friend and
         at one-point my trading coach Steve Ward is a hard working man. His skill doesn’t
         necessarily lie in the academic or clinical approach to trading psychology. Rather,
         Steve writes about and teaches practical tools to combat your inner obstacles.

         I like Steve’s books. They are easy to read, which is most certainly an advantage.
         Can you imagine a book about how the brain works, and you have to sit with a
         medical dictionary just to try to understand what the author was saying.

         Another coach I value is Brett Steenbarger. He is as hard working as Steve Ward,
         but he does have the geographical advantage that he is from USA. There they


                                                             162
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         have many more trading floor operations and prop trading houses than they have
         in England where Steve is from. What you get from Brett isn’t necessarily more
         academic knowledge but you sure get many more anecdotes from his time on
         trading floors.

         This brings me neatly to where I fit in.

         My background is academic. I have 2 college degrees and 2 university degrees to
         my name. For someone who wasn’t keen on school, I certainly knew how to punish
         myself. Apart from working a few years in a semi-relevant market role, I have spent
         my entire working life on the front row of the markets. I worked as an analyst for
         many years, trading the firm’s money as well. I was fortunate to be a regular guest
         on esteemed TV channels like Bloomberg and CNBC. I met some towering giants in
         the world of trading through these interviews.

         However, I was also a grinder, who would start early AM and finish late PM. I traded
         most evenings for myself and would often sit and listen to the brokers take orders
         and manage the firm’s risk.

         I learned more from those evenings than from any other source of trading wisdom.
         I tell this story often in my courses. I have observed thousands of retail traders
         execute millions of trades. Much of my work has been based on the obervations I
         made.

         I am aware this sounds a little cynical, so forgive me. However, when you are
         observing a group of people, who trade as if their heads are buried in the sand, you
         soon realise what to do and what not to do.

         I worked for a broker for 10 years. There weren’t many clients there who I wanted to
         be like. Sure there were some, but they belonged to the minority.
         I mean the MINORITY!

         I coined a saying, which I think sums up what I saw over that decade so well.




                                                             163
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Untrained traders become scared when they should be hopeful, and they
         become hopeful when they should be scared.

         Ask traders about their reasons for trading, and most will tell you, "I want to make
         huge profits." Although most traders get into the business to make a significant
         return on their money, the vast majority blow up their accounts.

         Why do so many traders fail?

         The obvious reason for many is that they just don't know how to trade. They don't
         use proper risk controls. They don't have enough financial resources. They don't
         have proper instruction. They don't have solid, reliable trading strategies. And for
         many, they don't have good reference points; they don't have a clear understanding
         of how the markets work.

         Any or all of these factors can spell disaster for the novice trader. One doesn't need
         to explore the depths of one's psyche to find other reasons for failure. That said,
         there's an interest among many would-be traders as to the extent unconscious
         processes thwart their trading efforts.

         Years ago, Freud wrote about people who fail after achieving great success in
         "Those Wrecked by Success." According to Freud, some people feel guilty and
         physically ill upon attaining a lifelong dream. Upon experiencing success, they aren't
         comfortable with it, and unconsciously take steps to punish themselves for being
         successful.

         Does that apply to the traders I saw? No, it did not. They had no success at all. In
         other words, traders don't repeatedly fail because they have an unconscious wish to
         spoil their efforts, but trading is just plain hard.

         Traders repeatedly fail because they don't have proper financial resources, solid
         trading strategies, or the proper mind-set.




                                                             164
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         What is Trading Success?

         A Trading Strategy With An Edge (positive expectancy)

         +

         The Ability To Be Able To Consistently Apply The Strategy


         That is just two components. That doesn’t sound very difficult.
         What could possibly go wrong?

         Well, none of us are 100% immune to the pressure of trading.
         I have identified 4 trading fears that can affect our performance:



                 1         Fear of being wrong.


                 2         Fear of losing money.


                 3         Fear of missing out.


                 4         Fear of leaving money on the table.




                                                             165
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         In my experience the newcomer wants to be right about the market, while the
         professional traders want to make money. When I travel around the world, for
         whatever reason, and I am recognised as “the guy from CNBC/BLOOMBERG/CNN”
         I quite often have to listen to people giving me their opinon on the market, or a
         specific stock.

         Many of these comments are born out of a need to be right. People are already
         invested in the stock or the market, and they are now looking for validation for their
         arguments.

         I don’t have a problem with that, and I do love to talk about the markets. However,
         the problems arise when people are losing money. I am convinced that they don’t
         have an exit strategy. The thought that they may have read the market wrong just
         never even enters their mind.

         It is not what you don’t know, that gets you into trouble. It’s what you think you know
         for sure, that just isn’t so, that gets you into trouble.



         The Need to Be Right
         Most traders focus too much on their need to be right. This can be detrimental and
         needs to be addressed. The truth of it is, we are dealing in the financial markets.

         There is not a system, method or pattern that can produce accurate results all the
         time. If there were, it would be known to all. All would be using it. Ironically, if this
         was the case, when all started using the system, it could no longer work. A 'catch
         22' of sorts, but just goes to show that it is obvious that there will never be a perfect
         system or indicator.

         The best we can do is to study each situation, collect the evidence, and make a high
         probability decision at the proper moment. What is of primary importance is how
         the situation is handled when the trader is right, how the situation is handled when
         the trader is wrong. What is the most common reason traders fail?



                                                             166
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         The answer is not following stops. What is another top reason traders fail? The
         answer is not letting winners run.

         Not following a stop is an example of handling the situation improperly when a
         trader is wrong about the trade. Not letting a trade hit a target is an example of
         handling the situation improperly when a trader is right about
         the trade.

         What good is being 'right' if you are not paid for it?

         Good traders assume from the beginning that the trade may go bust. They know
         how much money they have risked. They know when they will get out, and they
         will analyse other options, such as profiting from the stock, which is now moving
         'against the odds'.

         Yes, we need to be 'right' a fair amount when we trade. However, if your average
         winner is three times your average loser, you only need to be right 25% of the time to
         be breaking even gross.

         Accept that this is not an exact science, and never will be. We are reading peoples
         emotions. Accept that you will be wrong a certain amount of the time and accept
         that graciously.

         Done properly, this is a very profitable business. Focus on how you handle your
         winners and losers. Make timely, high probability decisions when you have sufficient
         evidence, and do so consistently and objectively.



         Notes on High Standards
         A hallmark of success is the dedication to high personal standards. This can be
         said about individuals as well as organisations. Unless one is striving to move
         forward, to move beyond one’s comfort zone, he or she will never achieve true
         greatness.



                                                             167
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         When it comes to trading, it is my experience that you are not going to make huge
         profits unless you set your sights high. However, high standards can also work
         against you. So in order to set yourself on the right track, working in your own best
         self-interest, it is worth considering what is meant by high personal standards.

         It's not as obvious as it seems, especially for trading aspirations. Depending on
         the context, setting extremely high personal standards, and meeting them, is vital.
         When you have a demanding job where even the best effort may not be quite good
         enough, it is necessary to comply with extremely high standards. Let’s face it: not
         every trade will be a winner, despite your best effort.

         There are many examples in life of professions where high standards are expected,
         and where it is difficult to hide: teachers must ensure their students reach a
         prescribed level of mastery, a heart surgeon must act flawlessly to save a patient's
         life, the pilot must fly the plane safely to its destination to ensure passenger safety.

         But there are times when one may set standards inappropriately, a little too high for
         a particular context, and this holds true in trading too.

         DON’T INSIST ON PERFECTION IN TRADING

         Some people are extreme perfectionists. They set standards higher than they can
         possibly achieve. A pathological example of this is found in some people who
         experience frequent bouts of depression.

         These individuals set high standards they can't meet, and feel like failures when
         they can't reach them. This can happen to traders who set profit objectives beyond
         their skill level. They may feel disappointed and helpless because they never meet
         their expectations. But usually, traders set unrealistically high standards in other
         ways. A common ailment is “analysis-paralysis”.

         Some traders have such high standards that they overthink and overanalyse market
         data before entering or exiting a trade. This often leads to hesitation and self-




                                                             168
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         reproach, and tends to undermine one's trading strategy. Timing is everything and if
         you cannot enter and exit trades at the right time, your trading account will take big
         hits.

         Another common example of overly high standards is illustrated in the belief that
         one must not miss an important trading opportunity. Some traders think they must
         find every opportunity to make money in the markets, and they fear they may miss
         even one trading opportunity.

         They find this possibility hard to accept. But seasoned traders will warn you that
         setting your sights on finding every opportunity will produce undue stress. You'll be
         much more successful if you remind yourself that you just
         can't expect to trade every possible opportunity.

         So how does a trader set appropriately high personal standards for trading? One
         way is to maintain a high level of discipline. For example, outline and follow a very
         detailed trading plan.

         Define specific entry and exit strategies, and use appropriate risk management.
         Once you outline your plan, it is important to follow it. Don't let yourself stray from
         your plan. And don't focus your immediate attention on how much profit you are
         making on each trade. Instead, concentrate on whether or not your profits are
         "justified" in that they are a direct result of following your trading plan.

         Remember, it's better to have a "justified loss," which results from showing proper
         discipline and following your plan, than an "unjustified win," which happened
         because you abandoned your plan. Setting high personal standards is a key
         prerequisite to success, but there is a right way and a wrong way to set these
         standards. Don't be an extreme perfectionist.

         Execute your trading plan effortlessly, and make sure you stick with it. High levels of
         discipline are one of the best ways to set high standards for your trading, and they
         will help ensure you trade profitably and consistently.




                                                             169
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Your Mind and Your Reality
         On my office wall I have a picture. It is a picture of a little fir tree. It is probably not
         even 10 inches high. Yet.

         Behind the little tree there is a fully mature tree. It towers over the little tree.
         Underneath there is caption which states that “It is the size of one’s will which
         determines success”. It is a nice picture and I keep it because a dear one gave it to
         me. But it is not my favourite quote. My favourite quote is one I made up for myself.
         It is personal to me.

         You see, I have NEVER had any problems with motivation or will. My weakness
         is my mind. It sends me messages from time to time, creating doubt and fear. I
         am CERTAIN this applies to EVERYONE. At times we are not thinking in our best
         interest.

         So, to counter the doubt and the fear, I have written on a post-it note a few words
         which apply to me. I don’t mind sharing it, as long as you know that this is what
         applies to me.


         Control Your Mind – Control Your Future.

         To control your mind means to discipline it. Your mind can be your best friend, if you
         train it and manage it daily. It can also be your worst enemy.

         If you are anything like me, you will have your ups and downs in life. The question
         isn't, can you handle the situation? The question is, can you handle your mind? Can
         you manage the thoughts and the emotions that are trying to poison your progress?
         Forget managing the situation. Manage your mind.

         To get something you never had, you must do something you never did. If that
         means that you must spend time working on your mind as you would spend time
         working on your fitness, then I promise you, it will be time well spent.



                                                             170
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Your life is going to follow your thoughts. If you think thoughts of mediocrity you're
         going to go right down that path of mediocrity. It is inevitable. If you think that your
         problems are insurmountable and there's just no hope, then you are going down that
         path of hopelessness.

         I don’t care if your dreams are to become a profitable day-trader or some other
         endeavour that requires that you free yourself from the shackles of mediocrity.
         There is a price to be paid to be the best that you can be.

         You have got to change your thinking before you can change your life. You have to
         choose to dwell on the positive, choose to dwell on the good because, and trust me
         on this, the negative is always going to be around us.




                                                             171
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         You have to choose to dwell on what's right and not what's wrong. You have to
         choose to dwell on what you have, not on what you don't have. You have got to
         choose to stay in an attitude of faith and victory, choose to think the right thoughts.
         You have to choose to BELIEVE.

         There's tremendous power in our thoughts. Our thoughts determine our actions.
         Our thoughts determine our moods. Our thoughts determine our self-image. Our
         thoughts determine the words that we speak. Our thoughts determine our destiny.

         Be clear in your mind in what you intend to achieve. I may not have lived a long
         life yet, but I am getting there – whether I like it or not. Time keeps ticking. It never
         stops. When I look back at the life lived so far, and I tally up the wins and the losses,
         I see clearly where I failed, and why I failed.

         I didn’t fail for any other reason than I didn’t work hard enough at it. The guy who
         beat me worked harder at it. He wanted it more. It is that simple. I thought I had
         time back then. There is always tomorrow.

         Now I live a life which respects time. It wasn’t a single cataclysmic event which
         changed my attitude. It took time. The mind is like a muscle. You can work on that
         muscle every now and then, and you are going to get the results according to your
         effort.

         But if you want what you don’t have, then be sure to know that it will require
         something out of the ordinary. Extraordinary effort leads to extraordinary results.




                                                             172
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Whether you are young or old, make sure you keep your perspective. I love the
         cartoon on the right. You will never see a U-haul after a hearse.

         I can’t take my money with me. Neither can you. What that means to me is that the
         money is secondary. The joy of pursuing my dreams and my imagination is what
         makes me sit in a quiet house long after everyone else has gone to sleep, right now
         working on this book, and at other times working on becoming a better trader.

         If you can find this kind of enthusiasm, you will be a great trader, a force to be
         reckoned with. I don’t need to promise you that it will happen. It is inevitable.




                                                             173
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         High Energy Life
         I have found that I trade the best when I am on holiday. I realised that when I am
         on holiday, I usually sleep more. I am rested and well fed. I am happy. I am full of
         energy.

         To enable a trader to perform at peak levels consistently there is one vital
         commodity that is required - energy! When we have high energy levels we are able
         to focus for longer, deal with stress and setbacks more effectively and achieve
         more. With low energy our motivation, resilience and focus are all reduced.




                                         The Importance of Energy




                                                           Peak
                                                       Performance



                                                         Emotional
                                                           State




                                                       ENERGY
                                                   Quantity & Quality




                                                             174
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Energy is a foundation of emotional states, and is critical to sustaining positive
         states, and therefore peak performance.

         In his work with traders Steve Ward always tries to make people aware of the
         importance of energy and its role in peak trading performance.

         Can you think of times when you have had been experiencing low energy and how
         that felt? How was your trading? And what about a time when you had high energy?
         How did you feel? What was the impact on your trading?

         Why don’t you take a snapshot of your current energy levels? When you wake up in
         the mornings how do you feel?

         Eager to get going or eager to hit snooze?

         Many factors can impact on your energy levels such as levels of stress, sleep
         quality and quantity, lifestyle factors such as exercise and nutrition, your age and
         your health etc. Part of sustaining a high level of trading performance is being able
         to sustain high levels of energy, and this means being able to manage energy levels,
         and being aware of the demands on energy and how to generate energy.



         Deliberate Practice
         I once had the pleasure of listening to a speech given by the only female “Market
         Wizard” (book by Jack Schwager called Market Wizards), Linda B Raschke. She was
         asked how one could acquire the art of interpreting price action.

         Her reply was to watch a 5-min chart for a full week of your favourite instrument, for
         example Euro Dollar. She recommended making a note of every single major high
         or low during the day, and writing it down. She claimed by Friday you would have a
         much better understanding of price action and of the ebb and flow of the markets.




                                                             175
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         When I get asked what one should do if one is new to trading, I recommend
         following and trading just one instrument. While “a chart is a chart” every
         instrument (asset) has its own idiosyncrasies and its own rhythm. By applying your
         focus on just one instrument you learn to trade it well.

         Many traders will only trade one or two products and they know these products
         inside out. Often new traders will focus on too many instruments at the same time.
         On paper it makes sense to search for a particular setup across many assets, but in
         practice it usually means that the trader misses many opportunities because they
         are not focused on one instrument.

         Ericson, a Swedish researcher, conducted a study which looked at the role of
         deliberate practice in the acquisition of expert performance.

         The study looked at whether "great" musicians, chess players, and athletes were
         genetically predisposed to achieve greatness (physiological) or whether greatness
         came as a result of external factors such as practice.

         The study's findings overwhelmingly showed that there was absolutely no basis to
         the argument that genetics is the sole determinant in predicting success. In fact,
         genetics played at best a very minor role in differentiating between those who were
         "great" in their field versus those who were merely "good". The number one factor
         in determining whether or not one reached the highest levels in their field was the
         amount of time these individuals spend on "deliberate practice."

         Deliberate practice is defined as the amount of time one spends in attempting to
         improve their performance. Simply performing the act is not deliberate practice;
         deliberate attempting to push oneself further is.

         The researchers found that those who achieved greatness in their fields spent
         anywhere from 30 minutes to two hours MORE per day on deliberate practice than
         those who were only "good" in their field. The authors go on to say that 30 to 120
         minutes of extra practice does not seem like much until one begins adding up the
         difference over a period of time.



                                                             176
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         For example, they cite numerous studies that show that it is virtually impossible to
         reach the pinnacle in one's field without at least 10 years of concentrated effort.
         Therefore, the 30 to 120 minutes each day the future greats spend on improving
         themselves works out to be many thousands of hours of extra practice over a 10-
         year period!

         Frustration is an emotion which is never far away in the world of trading. We all
         have days where we just don’t get the market. It acts strange or it doesn’t do what it
         normally does. Many traders make the classical mistake of constantly searching for
         new things to try, rather than to focus on one thing.

         Most “expert” traders use just a couple of simple techniques to extract money from
         the market and nothing else. Some days are better than others, but that is true for
         any strategy. By knowing an instrument well we also develop a good intuitive sense
         for when to use one set of rules and when to use another set of rules.

         If you are new to trading, then please take these words to heart: Don’t insist on
         perfection in trading. Despite your best intentions and your best effort, sometimes
         things just don’t work out the way you had hoped. It is important you remember that
         your trading career is NOT judged by the outcome of one single trade.



         Recent Trade Examples
         I have come to the end of the road with this manual. Before I leave you,
         I want to show you two trades I have conducted. Your examples are that you're
         unhappy with Trade number 1, but are happy with trade number 2.

         I hope a couple of practical examples from a professional trader can inspire you to
         find your own rhythm and path to follow.




                                                             177
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Trade Number 1


         I was certain today that the Dow Jones sell-off had been overdone. I counted 3
         pushes down. I executed a long position by point 1. I patiently waited. At point 2 I
         got stopped out. The loss wasn’t big. I lost 25 points.

         What hurts is that I missed the move higher. As it stands right now, I not only lost 25
         points. I also lost the opportunity to make 100 points. That is how much higher the
         Dow is right now.

         I can find many things I did wrong here. I am sure you can too. It is not so much the
         trade I want to focus on by telling you this. It is the process. I make mistakes. You
         will most likely make mistakes too.

         Mistakes are inevitable. It is what you do with the mistakes that matters. Mistakes
         are the most important lessons you can receive. How do you think I got to where I
         am? I observed tens of thousands of traders make millions of mistakes. I watched
         them for nearly a decade.

         When I do my review of my trading day or trading week, I will make notes. This trade
         will come under the section of “good call, a bit impatient, a bit unlucky and maybe a
         too tight stop loss”. It was just one trade of many.




                                                             178
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             179
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         Trade Number 2


         Trade number 2 was perfectly executed, but what I am more pleased with is the
         patience I exhibited. I sold short the Dow at point 1. I then had to wait for 5 hours
         before I took profits. I was a little unlucky with my exit. The market went higher for a
         little while and then fell 60 points more.

         Still I got 80 points and it was in double trading size. When I am in a winning trade,
         I add to my winning position. It takes time to learn this skill, but it is something you
         should work towards. It makes your profits so much bigger – when you win.




                                                             180
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             181
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




         If you want to enquire about my trading courses or my
         psychology book, then please get in touch. My email is at the
         bottom of this page.

         I want to thank you for reading my book. You have gotten off
         to a great start. Just remember that success is not what we do
         every now and then. Success is what we do every single day.
         Remember that, when times are tough.
         Stay in touch. I may not know you by name and face yet, but I
         sure would like to hear how you progress.

         Take care of yourself.



         Tom Hougaard

         tom@tradertom.com




                                                             182
The First Trading Manual: Foundation Course and Strategies




                                                             183
