P1: SBT
gloss   JWBT192-Yotov       October 13, 2009     14:13     Printer: Yet to come



                                                 The Quarters Theory: The Revolutionary New
                                                 Foreign Currencies Trading Method
                                                 By ILIAN YOTOV
                                                 Copyright © 2010 by Ilian Yotov




                      Glossary of Terms


         3-Day Rule of The Quarters Theory The 3-Day Rule of The Quarters Theory
         requires a Large Quarter to be completed in a time period lasting no longer than
         three trading days. The Quarters Theory allows three 24-hour trading sessions on
         the global Foreign Exchange market as a sufﬁcient time period for the completion
         of a Large Quarter. A failure to complete a Large Quarter in three trading days
         should be considered as a sign of price weakness and potential exhaustion that
         could lead to the unsuccessful completion of the Large Quarter, resulting in a re-
         versal back towards the preceding Large Quarter Point.
         100 PIP Range The range between each two Whole Numbers equal to 1 cent,
         1 penny, 1 centime, 1 Yen, and so forth, represented in terms of Price Interest
         Points.
         1000 PIP Range The range between each two Major Whole Numbers equal to
         10 cents, 10 pence, 10 centime, 10 Yen, and so forth, represented in terms of Price
         Interest Points.
         1000 PIP Range Completion Series of price moves from one Large Quarter Point
         to another, producing multiple Large Quarter Completions in a systematic effort to
         complete an entire 1000 PIP Range between two Major Large Quarter Points/Major
         Whole Numbers.
         1000 PIP Range Transitions Price moves that transition currency exchange rates
         from one 1000 PIP Range to another.
         Bearish Overshoot A bearish price move of up to 25 PIPs below a Large Quarter
         Point that remains within the range of the Overshoot Area below the Large Quarter
         Point.
         Bullish Overshoot A bullish price move of up to 25 PIPs above a Large Quarter
         Point that remains within the range of the Overshoot Area.
         Conclusive Wave   The third trend wave in The Quarters Theory Trend Waves
         Cycle. The Conclusive Waves may be shorter in length compared to other trend
         waves and price moves may be limited. The Conclusive Waves may signal exhaus-
         tion and may become the ﬁnal phase of a bullish or bearish Quarters Theory Trend
         Waves Cycle.


                                                                                      191
P1: SBT
gloss   JWBT192-Yotov        October 13, 2009       14:13      Printer: Yet to come




         192                                                              THE QUARTERS THEORY



         Consecutive Wave Each new trend wave that follows the Conclusive Wave and
         extends the trend beyond an Ideal Quarters Theory Trend Waves Cycle. The Con-
         secutive Waves are indicative of a strong trend, but they are also a warning sign
         that the existing trend has become extended and may be due for a more signiﬁcant
         price correction.
         Correction (Trend Wave Consolidation) A corrective price pattern in the opposite
         direction of a previously established Quarters Theory Trend Wave.
         Currency Decimalization The process of dividing one unit of the main currency
         into 100 sub-units. For example, 1 Dollar and 1 Euro are divided into 100 cents,
         1 pound into 100 pence, 1 franc into 100 centime, etc.
         Decimal Whole Numbers Digits that have a decimal point which indicates the start
         of a fractional part (1.1, 1.2, 1.3). Digits are placed to the left and right of a decimal
         point in order to indicate a number less or greater than 1. The precision needed to
         represent currency exchange rates requires the use of decimal whole numbers.
         Elliott Wave Theory A theory by Ralph Nelson Elliott which proposes the repe-
         tition of market cycles based on optimistic and pessimistic patterns of human be-
         havior. The Elliott Wave Theory divides the ﬁnancial market cycles into fractional
         patterns, called “waves”.
         End of the Hesitation Zone The price point that marks the end of the Hesitation
         Zone, exactly 75 PIPs above or below a Large Quarter Point.
         Extended Quarters Theory Trend Waves Cycle A Quarters Theory Trend Waves
         Cycle consisting of more than three bullish or bearish trend waves in the same
         direction.
         Extended Trend Waves     Bullish or bearish Quarters Theory Trend Waves lasting
         for more than ﬁve consecutive time periods (minutes, hours, days, weeks, months).
         Half Point  The exact middle point of each 100 PIP Range that also coincides with
         a Small Quarter Point (Ex.: 1.2950, 1.3050, 1.3150 ).
         Half Point of a Large Quarter The exact middle price point of a Large Quarter.
         The Half Point is positioned exactly 125 PIPs from each one of the Large Quarter
         Points that deﬁne a Large Quarter.
         Half Point Reversal Trade The Half Point Reversal Trade is a Quarters Theory
         trade that capitalizes on the reversal price moves that take prices from the Half
         Point of a Large Quarter back to the preceding Large Quarter Point.
         Half Point Trade The Half Point Trade is a Quarters Theory trade based on the
         price moves from a Large Quarter Point targeting the Half Point of a Large Quarter.
         Hesitation Zone    The range of 75 PIPs above or below a Large Quarter Point.
         The Hesitation Zone is formed by the ﬁrst three Small Quarters of 25 PIPs of each
         Large Quarter. The positioning of the Hesitation Zone depends on the direction of
         the price move - if prices move above a Large Quarter Point, the Hesitation Zone
P1: SBT
gloss   JWBT192-Yotov       October 13, 2009     14:13     Printer: Yet to come




         Glossary of Terms                                                            193


         will be 75 PIPs or three Small Quarters above a Large Quarter Point, if prices move
         below a Large Quarter Point, the Hesitation Zone will be 75 PIPs or three Small
         Quarters below a Large Quarter Point.
         Hesitation Zone Reversal Trade  The Hesitation Zone Reversal Trade is a Quarters
         Theory trade based on reversal moves that take prices from the End of the Hesi-
         tation Zone 75 PIPs above or below a Large Quarter Point back to the preceding
         Large Quarter Point.
         Hesitation Zone Trade The Hesitation Zone Trade is a Quarters Theory trade that
         takes advantage of the price moves targeting the End of the Hesitation Zone 75 PIPs
         above or below a Large Quarter Point.
         Ideal Quarters Theory Trend Waves Cycle A Quarters Theory Trend Waves Cycle
         consisting of three bullish or bearish trend waves in the same direction.
         Important Price Points within the Large Quarters     The important price points
         within the Large Quarters are: the End of the Hesitation Zone, the Half Point of
         a Large Quarter, the Whole Number Preceding a Large Quarter Point, as well as
         any major Short, Mid, or Long-Term support/resistance levels positioned within the
         range of a Large Quarter.
         Inverse Large Quarter Trade     The Inverse Large Quarter Trade is a Quarters The-
         ory trade that capitalizes on counter-trend reversal price moves from one Large
         Quarter Point targeting another Large Quarter Point, leading to the successful com-
         pletion of a Large Quarter.
         Large Quarters The Quarters Theory divides the 1000 PIP Ranges between the
         Major Whole Numbers in currency exchange rates into four equal parts, called
         “Large Quarters”. Each 1000 PIP Range contains four Large Quarters and each
         Large Quarter has exactly 250 PIPs (1000 PIP Range / 4 250 PIPs).
         Large Quarter Completion A price move from one Large Quarter Point to another
         that reaches the vicinity of at least 25 PIPs (one Small Quarter) from the targeted
         Large Quarter Point.
         Large Quarter Corrections     Reversal Large Quarter price moves triggered by
         over-bought/over-sold conditions as a result of series of multiple Large Quarter
         Completions.
         Large Quarter Points    The numbers that mark the beginning and the end of each
         Large Quarter (Ex.: 1.3000, 1.3250, 1.3500, 1.3750, 1.4000 ).
         Large Quarter Reversal A reversal price move that develops as a result of an un-
         successful completion of a Large Quarter, taking prices back towards the preceding
         Large Quarter Point.
         Large Quarter Trade     The Large Quarter Trade is a Quarters Theory Trade that
         takes advantage of the price moves from one Large Quarter Point targeting another
         Large Quarter Point, leading to the successful completion of a Large Quarter.
P1: SBT
gloss   JWBT192-Yotov       October 13, 2009     14:13     Printer: Yet to come




         194                                                          THE QUARTERS THEORY



         Large Quarter Transitions The transfer of prices from the 250 PIP range of one
         Large Quarter into the 250 PIP range of another Large Quarter.
         Major Half Point   The exact middle point of each 1000 PIP Range (Ex.: 1.15, 1.25,
         1.35   ). Each Major Half Point is also a Large Quarter Point.
         Major Large Quarter Points The Large Quarter Points that coincide with Major
         Whole Numbers (Ex.: 1.00, 1.10, 1.20, 1.30 ). The Major Large Quarter Points rep-
         resent critical junctions that mark the end of a previous, and at the same time, the
         beginning of a new 1000 PIP Range.
         Major Small Quarter Points     The Small Quarter Points that coincide with Whole
         Numbers (Ex.: 1.31, 1.32, 1.33 ). The Major Small Quarter Points represent critical
         junctions that mark the end of a previous, and at the same time, the beginning of a
         new 100 PIP Range.
         Major Whole Numbers The Quarters Theory gives the name “Major Whole Num-
         bers” to the ﬁrst numbers in each row of the table of whole numbers (10, 20,
         30, 100 ) The Major Whole Numbers represent a critical junction that marks
         the end of a previous, and at the same time, the beginning of a new set of ten num-
         bers.
         Overshoot Area  The range of one Small Quarter of 25 PIPs above or below (for
         downward price moves) a Large Quarter Point.
         Overshoot Reversal Trade The Overshoot Reversal Trade is a Quarters Theory
         trade that takes advantage of the reversal price moves that take prices from the
         end of the Overshoot Area 25 PIPs above or below a Large Quarter Point back to
         the preceding Large Quarter Point.
         Overshoot Trade   The Overshoot Trade is a Quarters Theory trade that capitalizes
         on overshoot price moves targeting the end of the Overshoot Area 25 PIPs above
         or below a Large Quarter Point.
         Price Price represents the monetary value assigned to goods, services, and as-
         sets. In the ﬁnancial markets, price is the numerical monetary value of equities,
         commodities, currencies, and other ﬁnancial assets, determined as a result of an
         exchange or trade transactions between market participants. Price is measured by
         numbers grouped as mathematical objects in a numeral system.
         Price Interest Point (PIP) A PIP is the smallest unit of price for any foreign cur-
         rency (e.g., for EUR/USD one PIP- Price Interest Point equals .0001 US Dollars).
         Whether the sub-unit is 1 cent, 1 penny, 1 centime, or 1 yen- each has 100 PIPs.
         10 cents, 10 pence, 10 centime, or 10 yen have 1000 PIPs. 1 Dollar, 1 Euro, 1 Pound,
         1 Franc, or 100 Yen have 10,000 PIPs, etc.
         Progressive Wave    The second trend wave in The Quarters Theory Trend Waves
         Cycle. The Progressive Waves are capable of progressing and extending an existing
         trend further.
P1: SBT
gloss   JWBT192-Yotov       October 13, 2009      14:13      Printer: Yet to come




         Glossary of Terms                                                               195


         Reversal-Trigger Wave The ﬁrst trend wave that marks the beginning of each new
         Quarters Theory Trend Waves Cycle. The Reversal-Trigger Waves usually develop
         in an attempt to reverse a previously established trend. These trend waves can “trig-
         ger” a corrective trend pattern or could signal the beginning phase of a complete
         trend reversal.
         Shortened Quarters Theory Trend Waves Cycle     A Quarters Theory Trend Waves
         Cycle consisting of less than three bullish or bearish trend waves in the same
         direction.
         Sign of Strength  Bullish price behavior that causes prices to sustain at or above
         a Large Quarter Point.
         Sign of Weakness       Bearish price behavior that causes prices to remain below a
         Large Quarter Point.
         Small Quarters The Quarters Theory divides the 100 PIP Ranges between two
         whole numbers in currency exchange rates into four equal parts called “Small Quar-
         ters”. Each 100 PIP Range contains four Small Quarters and each Small Quarter has
         exactly 25 PIPs (100 PIP Range / 4 25 PIPs).
         Small Quarter Points    The numbers that mark the beginning and the end of each
         Small Quarter (Ex.: 1.3000, 1.3025, 1.3050, 1.3075, 1.3100 ).
         Small Quarter Price Moves      Currency exchange rate ﬂuctuations in an orderly
         series of price moves from one Small Quarter Point to the next, measured in in-
         crements of 25 PIPs, in a systematic effort to complete an entire Large Quarter of
         250 PIPs.
         Stop (Stop-loss) Order     An order to close a trade at a predetermined price level in
         order to avoid or limit losses.
         Sub-Unit Decimalization The process of dividing the sub-units (1 cent, 1 penny,
         1 centime) or the main unit of some currencies (e.g. 1 Yen) into 100 additional sub-
         units, called “Price Interest Points” or PIPs.
         The Quarters Theory A theory based on the premise that currency exchange rates
         ﬂuctuate in an orderly manner between the Large Quarter Points within each 1000
         PIP Range deﬁned by two Major Whole Numbers (Major Large Quarter Points). The
         Quarters Theory proposes that every signiﬁcant price move in currency exchange
         rates takes place from one Large Quarter Point to another, in gradual increments
         of 250 PIPs - the range between two Large Quarter Points.
         The Quarters Theory Trades     Trades based on the methodology of The Quarters
         Theory. The Quarters Theory Trades that take place within the familiar, constant
         Large Quarter ranges of 250 PIPs.
         The Quarters Theory Trend Waves         A trend recognition method based on the
         Elliott Wave Theory that focuses on proper recognition of bullish and bearish mar-
         ket cycles and patterns, called “trend waves”.
P1: SBT
gloss   JWBT192-Yotov       October 13, 2009      14:13     Printer: Yet to come




         196                                                           THE QUARTERS THEORY



         The Quarters Theory Trend Waves Cycle Bullish or bearish trend pattern consist-
         ing of recognizable series of Quarters Theory Trend Waves and price Corrections.
         Time Stops Stop-loss orders that can be set not only by using time. Time stops
         provide a clearly deﬁned period of time for each trade to reach its objective. If a
         trade does not accomplish its goal in the speciﬁed time period, the trade may be
         closed to either lock in proﬁts, or to avoid or limit losses.
         Trader Objectives of The Quarters Theory Trades The Objectives of The Quarters
         Theory Trades can be classiﬁed in two main categories: Large Quarter Completion
         Trades that take advantage of the signiﬁcant price moves in currency exchange
         rates from one Large Quarter Point to another, and Intra-Large Quarter Trades that
         capitalize on the smaller price moves between the important price points within a
         Large Quarter.
         Trade Types The Trade Types of The Quarters Theory Trades are chosen depend-
         ing on the Trade Objectives of The Quarters Theory Trades. If a trade has as its
         objective the completion of a Large Quarter, the trade types chosen may be: Large
         Quarter Trade or Inverse Large Quarter Trade. If a trade’s objective is to capitalize
         on the price moves within a Large Quarter, the suitable trade types would be: Hesi-
         tation Zone Trade/Hesitation Zone Reversal Trade, Overshoot Trade/Overshoot Re-
         versal Trade, Half-Point Trade/Half-Point Reversal Trade, Whole Number Trade/
         Whole Number Reversal Trade.
         Trend Wave Failure The inability of a Quarters Theory Trend Wave to progress
         the existing trend further. Trend Wave Failure usually leads to an attempt for a
         trend reversal with the development of a Reversal-Trigger Wave in the opposite
         direction of the previously established trend.
         Undershoot   A price move that reaches the Undershoot Area within one Small
         Quarter of 25 PIPs from a Large Quarter Point but comes short of “hitting” the
         exact number of the targeted Large Quarter Point.
         Undershoot Area     The range of one Small Quarter of 25 PIPs ahead of a Large
         Quarter Point.
         Unsuccessful Large Quarter Completion         A price move from one Large Quarter
         Point to another that fails to reach the vicinity of at least 25 PIPs (one Small Quar-
         ter) from the targeted Large Quarter Point.
         Whole Numbers      The whole numbers include the number zero and all of the count-
         ing numbers.
         Whole Number preceding a Large Quarter Point      The Whole Number ahead of a
         Large Quarter Point that could become the last support/resistance price point that
         may prevent the successful completion of a Large Quarter.
         Whole Number Reversal Trade The Whole Number Reversal Trade is a Quarters
         Theory trade that capitalizes on the reversal moves that take prices back to the
P1: SBT
gloss   JWBT192-Yotov      October 13, 2009     14:13    Printer: Yet to come




         Glossary of Terms                                                          197


         preceding Large Quarter Point as a result of a reversal at the Whole Number pre-
         ceding a targeted Large Quarter Point.
         Whole Number Trade      The Whole Number Trade is a Quarters Theory trade that
         takes advantage of the price moves within a Large Quarter, beginning from a
         Large Quarter Point targeting the Whole Number preceding another Large Quarter
         Point.
