Excellent. Perfect. Okay. Well, let's go ahead and get started then. Uh, welcome everyone. This is Brandon Wendell from the online trading academy and I'm actually coming to you live from our New York offices and I'm, as a matter of fact, right down the street from Wall Street, uh, right around the corner from the exchange, believe it or not. And, um, teaching a class right now. So, I took a break from my class to kind of join you guys and talk a little bit about the proper ways to find market turning points we call supply and demand. uh you may have uh been attending a couple of our different webinars in the past with Sam Seiden and myself and saw us talking a lot about how we use these zones to identify high probability opportunities in the markets. So I'm going to go ahead and share with you some of the uh the basics some of the things that I use to be able to find the high probability trading opportunities that I do take in the currency markets as well as really any market that you want to trade. It's not just currencies that this applies to. It applies across the board equally to equity markets, futures markets, and it doesn't really matter what it is you're trading. You want to make sure you're trading with the highest probability for success. And we do that by finding the areas where prices are most likely going to turn. And we take our entries and our exits based on those areas. So, when it comes to these areas or zones, really what we're going to be doing, I'm kind of jumping into the uh the class that we have. Yeah, this says turning points. Oh, it says turning points. Somebody misspelled it. Okay. Well, it's turning points. And really, what we're looking at are supply and demand zones. Okay. And what's going to happen with these supply and demand zones is that it's going to be an area on the chart where prices are most likely to change direction. And that's because supply and demand are most out of balance in those areas. Okay? And there's two types of zones. There's going to be a supply zone and there's going to be a demand zone and those are going to be dictating where we should be buying or selling any particular security that we're looking at possibly trading. So when we look at these zones, there are two distinct lines that we're going to be drawing when we draw these zones. If you think about it, it makes sense if you're trying to figure out a supply or support or resistance, which is what the traditional technical analysis kind of dictates. Traditional technical analysis says that, oh, we we mark a line on the chart that tells us where price is going to turn. The problem is trying to predict exactly where prices are going to turn. It's a losing game. However, if we can identify an area or zone where prices are likely to turn, we will have a higher probability of being correct in that area. Okay. Well, our two lines we have are proximal and distal lines. So, if we're looking at the current price of any security, we're looking for an area where prices are likely to stop moving down and rise. We're going to be looking what's called demand. And that's where the buyers the demand for that particular security is much much higher than the potential supply. And if the demand is higher than supply, that's basic economics. We know that we're likely to move to the upside as that strong demand chases weak supply. You know, if you wanted to buy something, there isn't a whole lot of it out there. For instance, um you know, when uh a new iPhone comes out or a new gaming system, a lot of people want to buy those because there's so much excitement about it. There's huge demand and the company only ships out so many pieces of that product. That means that there's going to be lines and people are willing to buy at a higher price. But if there's a lot of supply, it's going to be just the opposite. There's too much supply and nobody willing to buy. Kind of like what we saw in the housing markets many years ago. Then the prices are going to drop dramatically as the people who wish to sell and unload their supply must drop their prices aggressively in order to be able to attract the weak demand that happens to be around if there's any whatsoever. So that's what we're going to be looking for in our charts. really just trade the same way that we do our purchasing or selling in real life. Whatever we would do in our own lives, we should be doing the same thing when it comes to our securities, especially when we're dealing with currencies. So, our proximal line is always going to be closest to whatever the current price is. So, if we're looking at a demand zone, we're going to be looking at the proximal line being closest to the current price and the distal line being below that area. The proximal force supply is going to be closest to current price. It'll be the bottom line. Easier said than done. Absolutely it is. You know, I always tell my students and and they sometimes get frustrated with this, but I say that, you know, trading is very very simple, but it's not easy. There are simple rules. We buy at demand, we sell at supply. The hard part is figuring out what are the highest quality turning points. So, the biggest advantage that we have in using these, we obviously get a great opportunity. High probability is what it all comes down to. We're not going to be right in the markets every single time. But what we can do is look for high probability turning points for buying wholesale and selling retail. Okay? That's why a lot of people shop at things like Costco or BJ's or uh Sam's Club is because you get to buy wholesale prices. Doesn't matter that you just happen to buy 2 years worth of toilet paper, but you got a good price. So we buy wholesale and we do that uh retail selling that's the high price that we want to sell. It obviously also will give us a low risk opportunity when we are trading. We're as I mentioned we're not going to be right all the time. But what we need to do is make sure our losses are very very small in relationship to the potential for winning. And we do this by entering in an area where if we are wrong we are proven wrong almost immediately. And that would be by breaking a demand or supply zone. Also, if we're getting in at wholesale prices and selling at retail prices, we get to get a high reward. And the key thing when it comes to any trading is that we don't want to trade based on emotion. We want to be trading based on rules. Okay? So, we want to be establishing a foundation for rulebased trading. That's a key thing there. So, when we're looking for zones, it's really just a three-step process that we're going to be using in order to be able to find our trading opportunities. Okay, so we'll see what this is. In order to identify a demand zone, one of the key things we're going to be looking for, we start off always at the hard right edge. So, we're going to start off at our current price on our chart. Now, from that current price, we're going to look left and down until we find the origin of a strong rally in price. Now, in my classes, I talk a lot about this that what we need to see for a strong rally is not just a bunch of green candles perhaps. Okay, we do have that, as a matter of fact, right in through this area. And you may be saying, why isn't this an area of demand? We had this downward movement. It paused and it started moving up. And one of the first things I would recommend that you look at is the size of those candles. The size of the candle tells me a lot about how strong price might be in a particular area. Right here we can see that we have relatively small candle that's starting off the bullish move. Little bit more momentum and then finally we get the big candle just before we pause. That's not what I want to see for a demand zone. One of the odds enhancers that I use in order to identify the proper area of demand is going to be how we leave the level. We want to leave the levels with large green candles and or gaps. Now, when we're dealing with Forex, obviously, we don't have a whole lot of gaps because of the nature of currency trading. It's almost 24 hours a day. So, when we're looking at this, we're going to be looking primarily for what we see here, the origin of an overall move and large candles leaving that area, kicking off that momentum. So, once I found that demand zone, what I will then do is draw out my proximal and distal lines and extend them forward. This is going to give me the area where I will buy or sell should prices return to that area of demand. So going out to a live chart, I've got the Euro dollar here, and we can start on any time frame. I'll I'll start with the daily chart. And to find my area of demand, I start at current price 3402 and work my way left and down for the origin of a strong move. Well, zooming in here a little bit more, here we go. we can see that my last move to the upside really just kind of began from here and moved to where we currently are. Okay. So, if I'm looking for the origin of that move, there's a lot of areas where prices have paused and rallied, but the origin of the move is where I'm really going to be focusing. I want to look back at the beginning of this move and see were there large candles coming out of that area. And I'll go ahead and put in a line across the bottom there. And let me just fix this for a moment. So, I want to using somebody else's computer, so you never know what you're going to get. Going to go ahead and put those in a black and thick line. There we go. So, there would be my origin of the last thrust to the upside. The top line or proximal line, I'm going to put above the bodies of the basing candles. So my sideways motion that I saw before the bullish pressure was all the way through here. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and the ninth candle. We finally started moving to the upside. So I always look from the current price back and down for the origin of the move and look to see what happened there. Okay. Now Talon, yes. uh the question that telling you can put it into the room if you want to all participants but he was asking um you know is it just a return to the previous rally and the answer is going to be yes I haven't gotten there yet but we will see that this is just a test of a prior area okay but the first thing I look for is start at current price look left and down until I find the origin of a strong move and that was the origin of this overall move we've had to the upside but the second thing I need to do is I need to make sure It's fresh. And before I get there, talking about fresh, I also want to talk about the line placement for our demand zones or supply zones. One of the things I want to see, obviously, once again, to start at current price, look left and down for the origin of a move. And I don't just arbitrarily draw the lines wherever I want. I have to have rules. I have to do rule-based trading. The more rulebased my trading is, the less emotion is going to be involved when I'm putting my money on the line. So in this case, oops, sorry, just stepped on my microphone cord there for a moment. So the in this case, what I'm going to be looking for is to draw my lines. I have two lines. The proximal line is the one that gets a little bit subjective, but shouldn't really be that subjective. The proximal line will be drawn across the top of the bodies of the basing candles. The distal line is going to be drawn below the the low or in this case I use the wicks. Okay? Because that happen to be the low. But if there were no wicks, I would just use the bottom of the bodies of the candles. So whatever the lowest low is, that's what I'm going to be drawing for my distal line in my area of demand. The proximal line, as I mentioned, is going to go across the top of the bodies of the basing candles. So, going back to my example that I just had, that's why the lines were drawn exactly where they were. I draw across the bottom of the wicks. That was the low and the top of the basing candles before we started to move to the upside. So, this is my demand zone. Should prices return to that area, somewhere in that zone is where I would expect them to reverse and move upwards. So key things I'm focusing on here. Number one, let me just go and put this in. Number one, oops. Start at current price. Number two, look left and down for the start of a strong move. So my overall move started way down here. That's why I started at that point. Mark the distal and proximal lines. Okay. And I have rules for that. As I mentioned, I use the low and the body of the basin candles. Okay. Will this be the same buyers that made a rally in the first place? It could be. Absolutely. And uh I'll explain that in just a few moments why this demand zone works. Okay. Now, I also want to make sure a couple things. Number one, um, with one of the odds enhancers. Now, I want to make sure we have a strong move. So, I need to look for large green candles. And we want a strong move. We want a strong move because when we are forming an area of demand, okay, this is where is the drop base rally here? This is the drop. There's the base. And there's the rally. That's all. That's what we're looking at. We're looking at this particular move to the downside. Uh let's see. Where's my tool? There it is. Drop base and obviously the rally right there. Okay. So, that would be the demand zone. Now, this is not going to be a quality demand zone. I'll explain why in just a few moments. But the reason why we want to look for large green candles, this is why demand zones work. Demand zones work because if you imagine there was an institution with large buy orders, you know, maybe they have a whole bunch of buy orders just sitting here. They want to buy in this price level 129. Okay, there's a whole bunch of those orders. Remember, this is built up demand, lots of demand. But if there's no supply here, all these orders that are pending, are they going to be able to get completely filled? What do you think? If there's a lot of people wanting to buy in this area, but not many people wanting to sell, a lot of these orders might get filled, but the remainder of those orders are going to be left over. So, as you guys are saying, no, they're not going to get filled. So, some of them might, you know, we can remove some of these out of the equation. But now if we were to come back to that area, people who could not get filled here would likely try to buy when prices return to that zone. You have to realize that a lot of these big institutions, they're not concerned about chasing price. You know, they're not concerned about missing out on a move. What they are concerned about is buying at a price that's too high, okay? Or selling at a price that's too low. So they will be extremely patient and they will wait for minutes, hours, days, even weeks until prices return back to an area where they can identify a high probability entry point. Okay, they want to get an average cost. I used to work in the uh the hedge fund level. Okay, or the hedge fund industry. And when I worked in the hedge fund industry, that's what we used to do. We used to look to try to get an average price for our securities. And if it took us some time, we would just work the order. We were patient and waited for prices to return to us until they could buy into those areas. Now, they will care for fresh levels obviously, but they actually create the levels. The institutions themselves will be the ones creating these levels because of all that pent up demand and no supply. Okay? Now, I want to look for the large green candles because the faster it leaves that area, the more likely there'll be leftover orders should we return to that. Once I get into a trade however or I'm sorry once I identify a level in this case okay I saw this dropbased rally origin of a move what I need to do is make sure it is a fresh level okay as jennady is asking you know do they care if it's fresh or not fresh absolutely they do in a way because they want to make sure they're buying early and as soon as all their orders are filled there's not going to be any demand left in that area to hold up prices anymore. it should have already ex accelerated to the upside. So the way I check to see if a zone is fresh is I simply look left. So this is my area that I had identified as demand. But by looking left, was there an origin of a strong move in that area before? The answer is yes. Right? We look back right here and we can see this was an area of drop base rally once before and therefore is no longer a fresh level. Okay, so that that's why going forward I would not trade this level because it has been identified as a demand zone in the past. I can take a look back even further. Remember I'm on a daily chart of the euro and look to see if that is even a fresh level at that point. And you could argue that no, this level was actually used once before also right here. We had the drop base and rally out of this area. But at the very least, what would happen? Remember what I was talking about with the leftover orders? This is why supply and demand works so well. If there is an institution that decided 129 or sorry, in this case 128. Yeah, exactly. That's why dumb money versus smart money, right? If an institution decided this area was a great opportunity for them to buy and we're on a daily chart, they did have a little bit of time in order to be able to get their orders filled. Okay, so some of these orders that were pent up here, I'm just throwing in a bunch of uh uh blue arrows as a demand zone. Okay, so these are a bunch of people who were trying to buy and obviously did. Okay, because prices rose from this area, the demand was stronger than the supply. So, we moved out of that area. Did first of all, did we leave the area with large green candles? Yes, of course. But some of these orders may not have been filled. They carried forward until price just came back to that area once again in the future. And that's what allowed us to take the trade. Okay. So, this being the origin of the move here, you can see that not only did we go into that area and left very powerfully, but we also didn't go very deep into that level. We only penetrated about half of that level with price on the retest. So, that shows us that there was a lot of buying pressure still left over that many of these orders couldn't be filled. Now, the question came up, would 8 days be be considered to be too much time at the level uh when I originated it? Here we have I guess 1 2 3 4 5 6 and the seventh day we finally left. Okay. Yeah, that may be a little long. Generally, what I'm going to be looking for for a strong demand zone, let me go and edit there. I typically want to see four candles or less for demand to be very, very strong. I don't want there to be a lot of time for people to get their orders filled. If there's a lot of time for people to get the orders filled, meaning we base for a while, there's a lower opportunity for there to be leftover orders. Yes. By the way, Rey, this works on any time frame. Okay? It doesn't matter if you're trading on a uh daily chart as I'm looking at here. If we're looking at a one minute chart, a 5-minute chart, a 4our chart, I know that's popular forex hourly charts, it doesn't matter. Okay? I typically want to see that we moved into that area and left very quickly. It's as if I, you know, I've got a cup of tea right here next to me on the desk. It's a paper cup. So, when I grab onto that cup, my tea, I just poured it before I came in here. It's very, very hot. I'm likely to let go of that tea very quickly. The same thing if we come into a demand zone and there's no supply to hold us down in this area, but there's a lot of pent-up demand, we should leave the area very quickly. the faster we leave that area and the less time we spend there the stronger that area of demand is going to be in the future. So we can take this out to let's see that was a daily chart. Let's go to my 60-minute chart and you know starting at current price looking back and down for the origin of a move we see our last move to the upside. Well that's not a fresh area. Our current move to the upside started right here. And I'm getting that to answer that right now, Droo. Uh, right here. We look back and we see, well, no, this was an origin of a move back here. No, I'm glad you asked the question because I'm I'm answering those, yeah, the questions. So, right there, we see that this was an area of demand previously. And what I'm going to do is keep looking back to see if there's an area that's fresh. Well, wait a minute. We had a nice rally here, but that's a test of this area. We had a nice rally here, but that's a test of this area. So, I just keep going back and looking back and down until I find the origin of a strong move that has not been used. Okay, here I've got this zone, but once again, that's already been tested here, and that might have been a test of this. So, I just keep going back right there. Well, we don't really have any strong demand zones for a while here on the uh euro, do we? On the hourly chart. And right here, we see that big move to the upside. May have actually been a test of this kind of bullish pressure. I go back a little bit further and now I found this rally base rally and we can see that we've gone sideways here and we were below this before. I look back a little bit further and generally what I'm going to be doing when I'm looking back to see if it's a fresh zone, I want to see that prices have traded through that area without caring about it before. Okay, so I look back to see first of all prices came from below. They did use this area, but it has a turning point for supply, not demand. That's the origin of my most recent demand right now at 131. If I kept going back to see if it's absolutely fresh, it is because if I look back, prices traded through that to the downside. It didn't care about that area as demand back here. It only cared about it here. You're asking if this is too far back in time. No, it's not. It's the only fresh area that I have on this particular time frame because you could argue that all these other areas of of demand have already been used. What that means is that if I'm trading on this hourly chart, I don't want to take any long position until I have a pullback to 13225. Doesn't mean I can't trade the euro. It just means that on this particular time frame, that's where my strong demand is. There may be other demand zones on different time frames that we could possibly trade. But what I'm seeing here is that I only want to take trades when I have a strong and fresh area of demand. And in this case, I look back and each one of these is a test of a prior rally point. So there's nothing else that's really fresh here. Everywhere else I tried to draw the line. You can see we'll just copy this line. Right here was a nice rally. Nope. But that was a test of this here. That was a rally. We tested it right there. Okay. This was a rally. We already tested it right here. That was a rally. We tested it right there. And and so on and so forth. So, I only want to take the highest probability opportunities. If I don't find anything and I want to trade on a 60-minute chart of currency, what could I do? Maybe change currencies instead of looking at the Euro dollar and maybe I start looking at the pound dollar or the Aussie dollar or the dollar yen or the, you know, what wherever it may be. I can switch currency pairs. I don't have to trade this particular pair. Okay. So, those are some of the key things I'm looking for for a demand zone. And I'm going to be looking at the current price. Look left and down for the start of a strong move. Mark out my lines. Okay. Excuse me. And I do want to see large green candles, four candles or less. And additionally, make sure the zone is fresh. Okay. Not used before. And the way I do that is I just simply look left until prices have already traded through that level. Okay? If the first test consists of only a small penetration by a wick, it doesn't matter. It's still a test. As long as we have tested that area at least once, I'm not going to use it. It's a lower probability. Could you take it on the first time and possibly trade on the second? Yes, absolutely you could. But the probability, remember what I said about our trades? We buy a demand and sell a supply for several key reasons. Number one, where was that? We want Oops. Escape. Uh, where did that go? Just had the slide I was looking for. There we are. We want high probability, low risk, high reward. The key thing is high probability right there because if we do take a second or third test, yes, it is a lowrisk entry because we could still get out if we break that area of demand and still get high reward if we're right, but it's a lower probability on the second or third test. That's the key thing. All right, so the same thing for supply, but yes, exactly opposite. If we're looking for a supply zone here, I can show you an example, by the way, of an actual uh trade that was taken. Uh we have Brennan and Tristan Patel, who are some of our excellent Forex instructors. And one of the trades they were looking at a while ago was on, let's see, what what pair are we there? Uh they're looking at the euro. They actually did euro futures in this case. And some of the students were looking at this opportunity where we had a dropbased rally came into that area for demand. They had identified that as a fresh area of demand and obviously a really nice move to the upside that the uh traders were able to take. Why would price channel and touch a level for several days? It could happen just because there's no interest in that particular security by the institutions anymore. Okay, that's all. This is another example of a trade that a student took on a a stock. how they determine target for the trade, I don't know exactly. They I'd have to look at the chart and see. It was an older chart, so I don't know. But it doesn't matter when news drives things. News usually is an excuse for what was already likely going to happen. You know, we've got big news coming out tomorrow. Uh in the United States, we've got the Federal Reserve that is meeting for today and tomorrow, and they're going to be announcing whether or not they're going to continue or start tapering off quantitative easing. Well, obviously if they say they're going to start tapering off quantitative easing, that may be weak for the US dollar, although it may also be weak for the euro as well. Uh because the euro and the US equity markets have been moving in very similar directions. So, we could see what happens there. But usually what will occur when we have news is that the news will simply drive price into an area of demand or supply. As you see here, back in 2010, we had bad news on British Petroleum. I know this isn't forex, but it works the same way in currencies as it does on equities or futures. It really doesn't make much of a difference. This student saw that move to the downside on the bad news, right into an area of demand that we had identified in our extended learning track, which is our online mentorship that we have for online training academy. It's actually more of an apprenticeship where um you know you're working with senior instructors and watching them trade and and getting information about some of the trades that you're looking at taking. So in this case it collapsed price that is BP collapsed right into that area of strong demand. It was untested fresh demand zone had larger green candles leaving the area. It was near the or origin of the move. Okay. And yeah this was in reference to a higher time frame. They were looking at a monthly chart. We collapsed into that monthly demand zone and saw almost a doubling of price from $25 to $50. So, the news doesn't matter as much as what's happening in our supply or demand zone, looking at the actual technicals of the markets. So, to identify supply, it's going to be very similar. We're going to start off at current price, but instead of looking left and down, we're going to look left and up for the origin of a move. And you may say, well, Brandon, why didn't you just focus on this area? We just had we had a nice little drop right there, even a gap. That's not the origin of the overall move. The origin of the move is way up here. Okay? And we have what is called identifying the curve. I'm not going to go into that. I'm going to reserve that for our classes. But in our identification of the curve, it tells us, do we have a higher probability or lower probability of taking a trade based on where we are in the overall trend. Now, the longer you're in the trend, the weaker that trend is likely to become because everybody wanted to buy, probably already did when prices were very low in wholesale. However, when prices are very deep into a bullish trend, the demand zones are a little bit weaker for the simple fact that they're higher. They're more expensive. Institutions tend to try to buy wholesale, not retail. The dumb money, as you guys were mentioning before, that's the the amateurs. They tend to chase price. You know, they're worried about, oh my gosh, this is going up and I'm going to miss out on this great trade on the pound because it's already gone up. Well, you just have to be patient, wait for it to come back to you. So, once again, for the supply zones, we'll draw out proximal and distal lines just as we did with demand. In order to draw these lines, the distal line is easy. Once again, we are going to draw that across the top of the wick or the high for the basing candles. That one's easy. The lower line, people get a little confused on this one. The lower line is going to be the proximal line and that'll be drawn across the bodies of the basing candles before the selling pressure became very strong. This is where there was an imbalance of lots of supply versus the demand. So, it pushed prices downward very quickly. That's where we're going to be drawing those lines. All right. So, taking this out to our live charts, sticking with the euro here on the one uh the uh daily chart, start at current price. It' be the same for supply. Look left and up. And I'm going to be looking for large red candles. So, let me go ahead and do this. I'll just write out the rules here. There we go. finding demand. And over here we're finding supply. Then over here we're finding Nemo. Oh, wait. No, that's another class. Never mind. My bad. Okay. Sorry. I like to try to have fun in classes. What can I say? So, if we're trying to find an area of supply, we're going to go ahead and again start at current price. Okay. Rim shot. Yeah, I'm a funny guy, but looks aren't everything, right? Okay. So, I'm going to look left and up to find the start of a strong move. And let's go ahead and edit this so it doesn't run into each other. There we go. So, edit. There we go. Number three. Mark the lines. Oops. Number four. Look for large red candles. Okay, we want a strong move there as well. And of course, we would like to see four or less candles regardless of time frame. Okay. And of course, we want to make sure the zone is fresh. There we go. So, I start off at current price 3110. Okay, which is the lowest time frame for the zones to be tradable. Honestly, you could do it on one minute charts, but I wouldn't usually suggest anything lower than 5 minutes. I've traded on 5minute charts with a lot of success. That's usually what I look for. Uh so I start at current price here 3114 and just again start going left and up for the origin of a strong move. We see right here there's a move downward that we're coming up towards the top of. So this was my current price. I look left and up for the origin of that move and I see we've got there's the high. We've got basing going on here before this drop. Well, it didn't really drop much before it pulled back and then dropped finally again a little bit lower. So, I don't know. To me, this would not be a high quality area of supply. Really, what I would like to see is as we had this basing, which was relatively short, maybe uh 1 2 3 4 five candles and then the drop, I would not want to see this little pause going on in here. I rather would have liked to have seen something like this where it just dropped away and moved away pretty good. So, I'm not going to consider that to be a strong level of supply on this daily chart of the euro and instead go back further to see above 37 was there a strong area of supply. Okay, that's okay. I stole your office. You realize in here uh sorry, one of the uh the guy's offices I stole. I'm actually in uh somebody else's office right now. He just walked in for something. So, as I look back from that 137 level, just go higher. Now, I could see this is an area that might be a little bit better off as my supply zone. And that is my rally base drop. In this case, I might actually I do this sometimes where there's a very small basing like that. I might actually use the open or beginning of that big red candle for that area. It's really high. Yes. But that means that on a daily chart, if we're not near supply or demand on our daily chart, should we be trading right now? If we're in between fresh supply and fresh demand, not really in any area, we should already be participating in the trend on that time frame. If not, there's a saying, uh, one of our instructors, Michelle Wulmering, she's a great futures trader, great futures instructor. Uh, you may or may not know her, but she always says, "Don't dd in the middle." So, if you're not at a supply zone or at a demand zone, you don't take any trade on that particular time frame. It doesn't mean that I couldn't find a trade on a weekly chart or a t a trade opportunity on a 4hour chart or even a 1 hour chart. It's just that on this time frame, I'm not near a high quality supply or demand. Therefore, I shouldn't take any trades. That's all. No, I just need prices to move to the zone itself. To be honest with you, the some of the best trades, they don't even go into the zone. they just touch the proximal line of the zones, that's all. So, I don't necessarily need it to go deep into the zone. I don't want it to. I want it to just barely touch the zone and rally out of that area. So, I need to be willing to jump in very quickly as we enter to the proximal line of either supply or demand. Okay. So, no, I definitely don't need a uh a deep move in whatsoever. So, let's go to another time frame here. Maybe even another security. Let's go ahead and switch over to let's see I can do well I was saying five fiveminute charts can work for trading opportunities. Let's take a look at the cable. Okay, here I am on the cable and if I'm looking for a trading opportunity on the cable, one of the things I might be able to do is start off. First of all, I would start off in a larger time frame and work my way down. Okay, that's one of the things I always do because when we're trending in a particular direction, for instance, right now we are starting to trend a little bit to the upside here on the 5minute chart. It's 9:00 a.m. We have lows, higher lows. We're starting to move up a little bit more. Okay? And because we are starting to push to the upside a little bit, uh we may be able to break through some of these supply zones on the smaller time frames. That's in a way where if I'm walking around this room, there's a chair in my way. I can push the chair out of my way because I have momentum that will carry me past that area of supply. But what I'm not going to be able to get through is the wall that's too strong. It's going to I'm going to bounce off that area. So the walls are for price or the supply and demand zones from higher time frames. So I use that as kind of a a starting point for where I can enter into the trend. I'm going to enter into whatever dominant trend I'm trading in. And we'll save the trend discussion for another topic or another time frame. But if we're starting in now a bullish trend, the reason why I say we're starting this bullish trend, we're starting to make some new higher lows and even some higher highs. So that's part of it right there. Any kind of a trend line that I would have tried to draw downward is getting broken already. So that means that we're likely to continue to break through supply zones on this time frame. How do I know that we're also in a bullish trend? Take a look at the last little area right there where we had a collapse. Now, this was not the strongest of supply zones, was it? Right? Right there, we have rally base and then we started to move down. Red candles, not the biggest of red candles, but what happened when price got there? We were able to break right through. The reason why we're becoming more bullish. So, what I need to do now is figure out where are we likely to stop? Well, we'll likely stop near the origin of the big move down or supply from the larger time frame or both. So, there's my basing good size red candle and that move continued for quite some time. That's the higher quality supply zone for me to be able to trade right now on this time frame because we are seeing that supply is not really holding until we get up to this area. I'm going to be looking for pullbacks through areas of demand in order to buy. Oh yeah. Well, see what happens. And like I said, maybe I'll use this for my next month's webinar with you guys. Identifying trend. Number one, I always look for trend first. What trend does I want to trade in the direction of the trend. Now the supply and demand tell us where to enter or exit the trend. Like I said, I'm in New York City right now and if I go downstairs, I'm right above the the 46. Okay, that's the the four train and the six train. Okay, that's the nearest subway station to me near Wall Street. And if I decide I want to go uptown, okay, I can take the six all the way up Lex. And if I take the six train, I don't just jump on board in the middle of the tunnel. As I mentioned, Wall Street station is literally just underneath my feet. I'm going to take get on board the number six to go uptown by getting on board at the station. If I know we're in a bullish trend and moving up, I'm going to get on board this trend by buying at a strong level of demand using just what I taught you. I'm going to exit when we reach a strong level of supply. Okay. Picking a demand zone would be dangerous if it changes from long to short. Well, remember why would trend change from long to short? It would only change if we hit the wall, the higher time frame supply zone. So the right now, let's take a look at this as an example. We have this move to the downside that's been occurring on the cable. We turned around around 15560 and it's actually 15570 is this area. Why do we start turning around in this area? Well, what would happen is that we would go to a larger time frame, perhaps a 30inut chart and looking at the 30-inut chart. Why would we have turned around there? Take a look. There's demand there, right? You can see this is my area of demand from the 30inut chart right there. drop base rally. We stopped just shy of that and that's what caused our five minute trend to turn around from short to long. That's why I'm always going to be looking at multiple time frames. If you go back to one of my old recordings here from FX Street, I actually did a session on multiple time frame analysis and how to find out those turning points. And so that's a key thing that I look for. So, by looking at my smaller time frame again on the cable here, the 5-minute chart, I'm going to be looking for buying opportunities at areas of demand. So, I look to see where did we last come from. We have nice move to the upside. We based and had that strong rally right there. Well, maybe that's going to be my entry point for a long until we reach that 15680 as my potential target. There we go. What do I do now? just sit back and relax and wait for prices to reach my area of demand and then trade according to my trading rules. That's it. Can't find multiple time in FX Street. I know I did it a while ago and I'm not sure if there was a problem with the recording, but uh if I if I um need to, I'll do it again. That's not a problem whatsoever. Definitely do it again. Uh lessons from the pros article. Who provides good point and figure charts for Forex? Uh it depends. I don't know. Uh MT4, I'm sure, probably has a version, you know, so you can go through FX CM. Um yeah, you can usually do a search on my page of my webinars I've done. But, uh I know Trade Station, which I'm using right now for my charting, actually does allow me to do point and figure charting. I believe it's under either format symbol. Yeah, right there. Point and figure. For those of you who are wondering what I'm talking about, on our website, tradingacademy.com, we actually have our lessons from the pros that you can go into. It's under resources. So, you would go to trainacademy.com, you go to resources, and then there's lessons from the pros and you can read a lot of the articles I write there. And the most recent one I was writing about was the point and figure charting. I actually did it for the India articles uh because I also write for India as well as the US equity markets, but it gives you a different way of perspective on price and can work for almost any security as well. So, but that'll be a discussion for another webinar. Boy, I've got a lot of topics here that I can go ahead and come up with for the next several webinars with you guys. But, uh unfortunately, I have to go. That's the end of my time with you guys today. Uh you can go ahead and keep up with me at uh tradingacademy.com as I showed you that. You can also keep up with me if you want to by my Twitter handle. It is trader bdub at uh Twitter. Okay. And I'm going to try to update that a little bit more than I have been in the past. Uh why do I do the Indian markets? Because I was over in India for about a year and a half helping to set up the online trading academy franchise over there and I was working with the Bombay and the National Stock Exchanges. So I have a really good uh understanding of the Indian markets over there. Really loved it over there too. Had a lot of good time. Webinars on the 14th and uh 23rd, April and March. Okay, there you go. So those would be the ones. All right. Well, you guys take care, trade safe, and trade well. And hopefully I'll see you very very soon in a an upcoming webinar. Like I said, we got great topics to be able to go over here. And let me know if you have any questions. You can send an email in to FX3 and they'll forward it to me so I can answer it for you. And until next time, I'll see you soon.