on the inside. These internal swings, put in that high, close below this, the first one. You put in that high right there. Close below this the second one. So, we know we can put in another high here, trade back, close below, put in a third one. So, what I would more or less be looking for is a move out of here to move back into that previous range there. And should we move back into that previous range and then go to put in another high above this high, that's fine. I understand that this again could just be facilitating a higher time frame pullback into a higher time frame continuation up above. But I'm still just following the swing count, which is the first part in my trading plan, right? I said trail your highs and lows. That's the very first part for me. The narrative is that we're in a range. So below this range is the bottom of the range and above it is the top of the range. So I have the narrative. The zones are anything that I have unmitigated lying both above and below that range. And the confirmation entry is where I am looking to take up an entry to trade with whatever the narrative and structure is that I'm using. So this is why I say take two structures with you. Not just using one minute and 5 second. That's not structure. 1 minute and 5 second. You're using that as an entry combo for an area that you're getting to based on whether it's the five minute, the 12 minute, whatever it is you use from the higher time frame. But um I mean you can use the one minute and 5 second. Yes, that's entirely true. um you know but at some point you end up getting lost and that's what we want to prevent. We want to prevent getting lost in price. So the only thing that I have is here right? Let me just move out some of this. Yeah. Move that out maybe right there. and I'd consider that. Okay. So, um u based on this, let me um put this in the chat for you guys to uh actually I think I I turned off um charts. Let me turn it back on real quick. All right, I um put the screenshot in the chat. Just mark it up and and show me what you guys would have marked out for if you were looking to take an entry in this price action. I said taking entries. I don't care about your analysis. Would you be taking Where would you be taking entries? I'm not looking for you to guess. entries. You you saying that it can come down here and then go back up there and it comes that that's not an entry because by the time you take your entry, you're going to be longing from up here to go that way and you're going to get margin called on the way down. You're going to be shorting out of something right here and you're going to get margin called on the way up. So, I don't um care about what the actual analysis is that you're saying. I'm care about the entries that you're taking from there. Okay. Okay. So, we have quite a few um drawing in there. So, let's move it forward. So now we see this pushing out, right? We see this trade below this low tap into the top of the zone here and we see this push like this. We see this push up. So most of the entries I see people looking to take are from down here within this zone here as you see for most of the entries. Um and then there are other people who are looking to short this which I hope it holds for you. Good luck on that. So, let's play it forward a little bit. So, let's just update our swings, right? It's the third swing in there. We tap into here, but we don't entirely take the low. That would end up being an equal low. If you were trading futures, that more than likely would not have stopped you out because it needs to cross over that low in order to um take you out. So for me, if we can trade up above this here, I would take this into the zone there. Um, we'd more than likely push on here and try to move further. So for me, if it was a little scalp from here to the center of the zone, I would take that. So nothing. Would anybody go along here? Okay, let's move it. So, whoever went long, there was a nice little long pattern that came out of there. And this is why you do not target highs. This is why you target zones and you look for one to ones in those moves out because if you were targeting this high, you would have watched price come all the way back to you and either trade through your entry and take you out at break even or run that low. So, there's a few people waiting for a long just below this. Um, let me see. Yeah, I'd say another bounce at 71, but I'd wait until we trade below 69 to look to trade back into that range. So there was a few people that had mentioned that they were longing from here, right? You guys are longing out of here. You guys are still considering that long. No. Why? Why the change Okay. If I were to take a long out of here, it would probably just be right up above this high on the inside here. or even this little wick right here. But I would now be anticipating that that move up just brings us back into another low down here for what? to bring us up again like that because we have this low here. Even though this is not technically a break from this low to this high and we trade below it, we see the equal high forming in here and us digging deeper into this zone to potentially what? give us a move up off of it and then go and take the low of it to remember uh Friday's stream I talked about how we oftent times look for shorts in areas that the market is looking to give us that higher time frame pullback and that's how we're getting tripped up a lot. So, in the event that we take that low, this becomes the new swing here. And just below it, we'd be looking to swing around back into the range there for what? The possibility of another short down like that. So that would be my narrative for why anything that I'm trading would just be a quick scalp that is against what's currently taking place here. And I would know that if I was doing any buy stops or whatever it is, it would be a shortlived scalp against the trend. So we have this zone here to mark out. Would anybody be shorting on this Yeah. Okay. So, let's move some of this out the way. Let's go forward. There's a few people that said buy stop here, right? Put the stop just below there. This is a candlestick structure flip inside of here. So, how do you guys feel about that candle there? This is London open coming. That's another indecision candle. uh 258 candle. So, if we could sweep this provided down candle in here and trade back up above it, I'd be looking to take out these highs and tap back into this zone here only given that we get a sweep. So, some people held on and they got that reward back to the top, back within this range right here. Nice entry. And there's the 50% of the zone delivered straight down, giving the one to one of the zone right there. Trading down off of it. So, seeing what we have developed here, let's just move some of this out just so we could clear it up a bit. Seeing what we have developed here. Um, what are you guys thinking? You guys thinking that we're pushing back up above to the highs or you think we're still trading lower. Okay, it's mixed right now. I would have it going lower. Um, simply because we have this low into this high. We have this low into this high. We have this low. We put that there, but we have yet to put in another low. And I told you guys that when we get to the third swing, that's where I'm done continuation trading, right? That's where I'm looking for the market to now reverse and begin to create some upside within here to to disrupt or take out some highs that are in there. But right now, I'm still leaning towards below this low. Somebody said fifth swing. Um you so so let me let me uh let me do this real quick because I see you guys um have not watched any of the videos properly or you think you watched it properly, you didn't take notes and you just going by what you think in your mind. So let me just go over this real quick. Uh where are we? So when we have little swings inside of here, let's say we started with this up top and we're heading down like this. We begin to create some consolidation in here and then we drop below. We head back up and then we drop below. And now we have one, two, three, four, five, six in there. We head back up here. We probably barcode in here and then drop below again. These swings that are in here, you're not counting these little tiny swings in here as swings. So, I see people talking about the the fifth a fifth swing in here. Um, there's there's no such thing as a a fifth swing in here right now. We have a swing here, right? Let's start with this. We have this swing there. We have a swing here. This little tiny swing inside of here was invalidated when we traded up above the high, right? We traded up above the high and then we put the the other low in below here. So, this doesn't count as a swing because this high invalidated this being a swing on the inside and that replaced it with this third swing here heading down. So, if you are counting these on the way down, this entire one here becomes the third one that's there. These little tiny ones inside of here, they are not counted with these external ones over here. They're not counted with that. And this this one inside of here, the smaller one in there has been invalidated the minute we traded up above and then trade it back below it. So when we invalidate that swing, when we invalidate this inside swing right here and we trade back below it, this becomes the new swing, right? This up move into this move down and we just close below it right here. That becomes the new swing in us counting these. You see how it's within this larger swing. It's this low to this high and then we swing down and close below. That inside of there is no longer a part of the swing count. And that's been explained in many videos. Um, so do some better note takingaking and be more meticulous in what it is that you're learning. Otherwise, you would be counting these swings and counting the stairway to the top of the Tower of Babel trying to figure out what swing count you're on. when different swings belong to different time frames. Different swings belong to different time frames. So the larger swings are from the higher time frame. The smaller swings are from this time frame and there's even smaller swings within there that are from the lower time frames. And this was all explained in videos one, two, and three of the free fr the free master class. This was also explained in all of the back testing videos that's been released to you guys already. So, if you're not taking notes, you're going to have these things wrong. And that could be the small thing that causes you to take a trade that you lose on, right? And then begins the spiral. And then begins the spiral because you're missing that little tiny detail that throws off your entire plan. So it's it's very important that you guys go back over that understand that the smaller swings that are within here they are just on the leg of this larger swing that's here. So let's say we're talking about this low into this high, right? The smaller swings that are in here, right? These are the swings that's inside of this low and this high. That's one path of swings that we're counting, right? But then we have these smaller swings that are on the inside of here, right? Those things belong to another time frame. They're not from this time frame and they're not from this larger swing count either. So that's why I say that you have to trail your highs and lows from multiple time frames so you can understand that and you're not tripped up with counting a small swing within here as a part of a larger swing count that's up here. So each leg right you guys see this up here. Let me move this over here. Each leg, that's this leg down, right? That's this leg down. That's this leg down. This this leg down. Each leg can have a certain number of swings that are within that one leg, right? This could have two going up and then just create one on the inside going down. And this could have three going up and then creates for heading down. This can just impulse up, put in a down candle, impulse again, and then trade below it and just have a couple of red candles dropping down into this low. Each leg has its own swing count to it, but each leg is within a higher timeframe swing as well. What do I mean by that? Each leg is within a higher time frame swing. That's the leg up. There's the leg that's going down. Now, now the leg going up, right? And the leg going down. Now, each time we trade below the up leg, that is a swing that heads up. We trade below it and close. That's another swing there. Completed this leg going up. Once we trade down below the up leg, that's another swing created. So that's from a higher time frame. Same thing with this. That's another swing created. That's another swing created on the leg down. But we have these legs that go up that have they have their own swing count to it. And then we have these legs that go down that they have their own swing count to it from this time frame. But those legs, what they're doing is they're facilitating a higher timeframe swing count. Each leg is facilitating its higher time frame swing count. So we say one, we say two, we say three, and we say four, we're not counting these little things inside of here on the way down and then on the way up and then and then on the way down. We're not counting any of that because we're following what? Two time frames. One above you and the one you're on as your swing counts. So, it's important that that you guys gain an understanding of that quickly. And that's literally just in trailing your highs and lows. Troll your highs and lows on the way down. Trail your highs and lows on the way up. Highs and lows on this time frame do not belong to another time frame. Swings, larger swings from this time frame are just highs and lows on a higher time frame. Smaller swings on this time frame are just highs and lows on the on the lower time frame. That's why you have to spend time doing that. And there's some people that think that they they found it, they got it. This is all I need. Now I just need to buy stop. And they buy stop themselves right to margin call. They sell stop themselves right to margin call because you don't know whether you should buy stop or sell stop because you have no idea where you are in both what your higher time frame structure along with the lower time frame that you're using. So it's important that that you guys work that out and back testing back testing back testing. So I'll I'll give you know basic examples within here where we have this move up into here, right? And then you see us putting this little low and then this high here. This inside of here is not a swing from this time frame. That's a swing from the lower time frame. So then we go and we put in this low. Now this swing that you see here, this is from this time frame. But then we have these little smaller swings on the way up in here. Little down candle in there, the little move up, little down push there, this little move up. These are a part of a lower time frame, right? Those are a part of a lower time frame. But then you see this down move within here. And now that's back to this time frame, right? This one that we just counted going down. It's back to this time frame. It goes down again and then it pushes up and there's that failure to close up above. But before that failure to close up above, we have that little push up again with this high here of this wick. And then we have a downswing on a lower time frame that facilitates the move up on this time frame. Right? So then we fail to put that high in and we go back below this week low. This is back to that purple time frame of moving down. Now we have that low there. Then we see that push up again, right? That's back to the purple time frame swings. So then we trade down below again, right? And while we are trading down below, we have these little small swings that are being created inside of here. That's on a lower time frame and us moving back up again in this direction. Us moving back up again in this direction. What's facilitating that? The smaller swings that are within the lower time frame that's getting us there. And then we break below that smaller swing, right? And now we're trading down again, which is facilitating what? It's facilitating back to that purple swing that we've been counting from over here. But all of that is facilitating something that's back here from the higher time frame. So, we need to know all the the the time frames that our swing counts are coming from. Because if you don't, then you're going to mistake these little tiny swings within here for the swing count of the the current time frame that you're using. And then you're going to mix the swing count from the current time frame that you're using with the higher time frame that you're following. And you know, soon enough you're just going to fall apart with that. So you know you want to be sure that again it's video one the first video of the playlist video one which is talking about the multi-timeframe structure very important yes exactly fractalss on fractals on fractalss yes that that's entirely it So, you know, there's no fifth swing here. Uh, whoever had mentioned that there's you you're not counting properly. And you guys are going to have this video to go over, you know, to go back and look at how to properly count swings. What swing are you counting? somebody you know I said that a part of my trade plan the very first part is count my swings from what time frame you can't just say count your swings you have to say what from what time frame you're even utilizing the swings from you think a swing is just a swing because you see that it was a down move on on the time frame you're trying to trade no so you need to be sure that you're following multi-timeframe highs and lows mult multi-timeframe swing counts that you have because you can be bullish on the one minute but bearish on the 4 hour. You can be bullish on the on the one minute right now and the 15 minute cuz they'll be bearish. So, it's important to know, you know, the the swings that your your entries are coming from because the swing from the 15minute can just be facilitating a pullback for the 4 hour. The swing from the one minute can just be facilitating a pullback for the 15minute. And you're thinking that we're bullish. And now all of a sudden, you're targeting a high that the 15-minute is saying, "No, no, no, no. Hold on here. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. We're still looking that way until we take something significant enough for us to now move back up in this in this region. So that's why I say that many of you guys issues will be solved and back tested. I'm telling you, all of a sudden, I'm a white supremacist now because I tell somebody to back test. And that's how real it is. That's how much anger people have towards back testing. And they want to just quickly get into the the environment of I want to trade live. I want to make the money live because then back testing is not real. No. No. Back testing gives you the blueprint. Gives you the blueprint of it. And yes, somebody did call me a white supremacist because I told them that they need to go and back test the question that they asked me and it was about swings. So yes, that this is it's just that people have this this innate anger towards wanting to delay the gratification, the instant gratification that they have and then say anything anything out there in the world. Oh, he's just telling you to back test and and watch the videos 10 times so he can get so he could get, you know, uh uh revenue from the videos. I'm like, what? I I use copyright music. I'm not making no revenue from those videos. This it's copyright music. I didn't know anything about that back then. So it is still at the end of the day [laughter] whether it is that or it's not that you still have to back test. You still have to back [laughter] test. It's very important because it's going to help you to understand what what these these smaller swings within here represent and how it doesn't get you caught up in, you know, trying to use the smaller ones with the larger ones that are there. They need to be separated. There's plenty of SMC guys on YouTube who they they use market structure, but they do not use it in the way that I've taught it with body closures with what constitutes a swing. What constitutes a swing? So a swing is that when we have that up candle that forms, right? Let's say we open up and we put in a high. put in a high like that up above the up candle that's there. And this is basic stuff that y'all should already know. We put in a high that's above the candle's previous high right there. Right. So, let me just change the color to neutral. We put in a high above that high. And this candle is a red candle. It opens up and it turns bearish. It goes up first, but then it turns bearish and goes down below the low of the bullish candle. It needs to provide a body below the low of that bullish candle. Needs to be a body, right? So now that you have the body that closes below that low, that validates this high and validates what begins as the pullback. But that pullback could just be heading into some zone over here to where now we trade into it and then we go back to put in another high up above this old high. So that move down that move down that we have here is what we are calling the swing. move this out of the way. That move down that green candle and then the the red candle opens up, takes out the high and then drops down below to close the lowest point that that red candle went or the lowest point that even if it was a series of red candles, the lowest point that it went before the bullish candles started to push out and go back up. That is the swing down and then we trade up. But this swing can only be validated as a swing if that closure happens below that candle, right? We trade low, trade below the candle, and then we go back up and put in what? A body right up above that high. We put in a body up above there. That's what makes this entire thing a valid swing. And that's for every time frame you are on. every single time frame that you are on. That's what validates that. So you could have a validated 5-second swing that's not validated on the one minute. You could have a validated one minute swing that's not validated on the five. That's why it's important to take multi-time frames with you. It's important to take that with you. So, um, you know, the conversation about what's a valid swing and what's not, you know, those things have have already been discussed in many of the videos before. And if you just go back to your notes, which you were told to take, but some people just don't want to take because they think they're going to become profitable without taking notes, you know, it's going to take you some time. You know, it's going to take you a bunch of losses. you might have to lose the house and the wife and all of that other stuff because you want to be hard-headed and and just not take notes. You know, I have people that came to me months later and said, "Hey, if I just followed it the first time the way you said, I wouldn't have lost all of the time that I've lost." And I can't stop people from from wanting to go that route. Some people, they desperately want to they desperately want to follow themselves. And nothing.

what's up guys we're going to record a short video on Candlestick structure so as we know when we have a low put in we have a high put in we put in another low we trade up above that previous high right and we tap back in to continue High most of you guys know that as what Market structure shift or you know quasi Moto whatever it is you want to call it but if something happens on one time frame it happens on everything time frame that's the whole point of price being fractal right so what you see over here is you see this low get put in right that's our low here and then we see the highest point was not this bullish candle the highest point was this bearish candle the wick that's there so we put in that Wick and then we trade below that candle right below the the candle that we have here that's equivalent to this sorry that's equivalent to this I'm putting in this high so we trade below it right so what we end up getting is price trading up above it like that it's equivalent to this same move trading up above it above that high right so when we get up above that high what we end up taking is the previous zone right that old high into the new low that was put in before we reversed to go up above the old high before we reversed so that high before we reverse right into this low and then when the reversal took place we often times return back to that zone to trade higher off of it but we see this in structure as well as we see this in candlesticks so with this this is a Candlestick structure flip so what are we anticipating with this right here we're anticipating the same thing over here for us to tap back into that zone and trade higher right so let's take the zone and we want to see price drop back into here and trade higher off of it so let's click a couple candles forward we end up seeing price move back into the zone right back into the 50% of the zone and we anticipated price trading higher so what you're looking at is your entry being here here and your stop being below the low when price trades out of the Zone that's an automatic one to one for you from tapping in and trading out right but you can as mentioned in previous videos that are now removed Target the high so it depends on whatever you're risking within here whatever point value you're looking to get out of this move if you want to Target to R from it you can but often times I Target right out of the zone you can Target the higher you know area up above there as long as you have proper managing techniques to take you you know within there before price reverses the problem is if you look to the left you see that we had the same thing here right we had the low of this 1408 candle we put in a high and then we dropped below it right so we dropped below it with this green candle we trade up above it and we tap back in right tap right right back into the 50% and you see us trade higher right but that does not mean that this is a reversal what you have to understand is that reversals happen from higher time frame zones so this is just what facilitates the pullback and or the reversal but this happen happens across all time frames you'll see this the same way on the 5 minute you'll see this the same way on the hourly you'll see this the same way on the daily you'll see this on any asset class you can find to trade but this has to happen in a higher time frame Zone in order for you to consider it a reversal what this just facilitates is a pullback each time so if you look right up above it we have the same thing we have this low we put in this High we put in a low right here right we trade up above it and what happens we goes we go right below it so anybody just trying to take a random Candlestick structure flip would have been liquidated right behind that low no chance to get out no chance to go break even nothing so you want to make sure that these things are happening in the zones how do you find these zones well you were taught that in the previous video that's being released later today so what we end up seeing with this Zone here is if we click a couple more candles forward we see price trade up out of it right you see another Candlestick structure flip in here as well and there you go one to one delivered does it does it deliver the high deliver the high as well but if you use this and try to say hey I'm going to shift to break even set some you know set my sights on the high you know PA you right here set some Runners you don't know whether this is actually coming out of a higher time frame Zone to the left or not so to trade in that manner you never prepared for this to sh show you whether it's a higher time frame reversal or whether it's just facilitating a lower time frame pullback I mean sorry a higher time frame pullback so you go and shift to break even and what happens out at break even given back all the profit you were able to make within this because you wanted more profit so whether you were taking a one to one whether you were taking it to the high that brought the low there you can still fumble an entry like this if you're not considerate of the fact that you need to have multi-time frame analysis or a multi-time frame approach to taking a reversal out of the area so this is it on the one minute for enq we'll uh take this with us and go to ym so same template right so we have this low and the high the bullish candle put in a low and put in this High we put in another low we trade up above it right so what are we anticipating the same thing like this schematic right we're looking for price to trade back in and trade out right so let's click it forward and see what we get we know that this here is our zone so we click a couple candles forward we see it Taps us right into what the 50% and then we see price trade out of it so here's what you have to remember with this with this would you trading is the 50% of the move right so there's no such thing as moving your stop to to break even real fast should you see it start making its way up because then you end up what getting yourself liquidated there's a possibility that it trades back into here again and then trades out of the area right so that one to one is delivered right well let me the one to one is delivered the the high that put in that low let's see if we actually got it there you go it's delivered so for the person that wants to ship to break even and hope that we trade up here or hope that we trade to that high that's just based on whether you're actually taking this out of a higher time frame Zone and often times if you're in a higher time frame Zone it takes two to three candles to leave that zone so if you're in a 15-minute area then you need to know that you're going to spend 30 to 45 minutes in that area before price leaves so using a Candlestick uh structure flip as an entry to take a 15-minute move to take an hourly move is foolish obviously because you could be mismanaging that entry within here before it actually trades out if even if you were in a 15minute move that low could have been taken and taking you out and then actually went your way so you need to understand that Candlestick structure is relative to the time frame that you are trading it so this is relative to what the one minute time frame what we see in a c one minute Candlestick structure flip flips sorry we're not using any higher time frame to take the higher time frame Candlestick structure flip right I'm sorry this is the daily big this is the daily so we're seeing a daily flip into it so look at how long this daily flip even took because this is a Candlestick structure flip on a daily cool look at how long it took it got here on uh October 7th and it left and tpd by October 13th so look at how long you'd be in this entry if you're using a candles structure flip on a higher time frame versus a lower time frame but it happens on every asset class this is us30 the last one was was uh uh NQ now if we go and we take the same thing over to Gold this is our template right we're looking for a low a high then we trade below that low and then trade back up above that high and we tap right back into the 50% right so if you look over here someone eager to try and find a quick entry could have mismanaged anything on the way down here what you have is you have the the low in there you have the the high of that Candlestick we drop below it we tray back up above it right and when we go to tap back in what do you see we run through that so you can't use it every time you see it it needs to be placed into a higher time frame zone for you to understand that this needs to be a higher time frame uh uh higher time frame reversal if I'm taking it as a reversal otherwise it's just a higher time frame pullback right so if you look right here we have the same thing we have the low that this um uh August 6th candle put in and when we opened up we put in a tiny high on August 9th then we dropped in and put in this low so you see we just traded up above it right so us trading up above that what do you end up seeing with this when we click forward we see price trade back into it right and this is where everybody's ready to hurah go bullish right that's that's us tapping back in so we have that Candlestick structure tap and then what do we end up having inside of it since this is the daily we have a low we have a high we put in another low and then we violate the high so we back in again and you see another shift higher you're going to see these things on every single time frame you can trade you're going to see it above you below you what matters is where you are in structure and we already taught structure as well as zones so you need to be sure that this is your Candlestick confirmation based on whatever time frame you're using to trade out of that zone and what You' often get is yeah we tapped to 50% and then we traded out of it but you also got another one inside of here and every single time you see price move higher or every single time you see price move lower it's always starting with what that low that high we trade below it right we tap back into that previous range and then you see us trade lower now this right here didn't hit the 50% but when we came back up to it over here just about you couple months later you see us tap into that 50% and what reject right out of it so you need to be sure that you're using these things within zones in order for you to be able to profit from it if you do not then you're just going to chase this everywhere you're going to see it everywhere and end up with analysis paralysis because you don't know whether you could use it or not if you look we we have one back here on go right so we have this low we have this High we put in a low we trade up above the high we come back down and we liquidate the low so if you're just using this anywhere that would have been your your stop there and it would have violently traded through your stop because using this would no context will still get you the same result you've been having this is not the holy Gra you are the holy grail and where you exercise your entries where you exercise your patience when you put everything together that's how you end up with a high probability result but if you're just chasing this everywhere and anywhere this is not what you are using to say price is reversing this is your entry confirmation in an area where you know price is reversing from which often times comes from what a higher time frame area so this is a daily it would be coming from a weekly Zone if you had a weekly POI marked out this would be the fastest way to be able to get into price and reduce your risk and then be able to trade and Achieve whether it's that one: one whether it's the high that put in the low there's many possibilities but you need to be sure that you are in line with Market structure right so let's go over to euro SD this is our same template we're using right so we have this low we have this High we put in another low right we trade up above it and we anticipate in price tapping in and taking us higher right just like all the other pairs that we use so this is our previous range right here and what you see is if we click forward price Taps back into the 50% digs deeper trades back up above the 50% and then takes us out but what do you notice about within here in the 50% what you see is since this is the daily you see a lower time frame flip that happens inside of that daily Zone so more than likely this is a 4-Hour Flip or maybe a 15minute flip um you you're going to see it on structure on the 4H hour or structure on the 15 minute but it's still facilitating the higher time frame flip that occurred and this higher time frame flip would only be happening in where again a weekly area KES structure flip happens in a higher time frame Zone that you mark out so you mark out that higher time frame Zone and you get that Candlestick structure flip often times you're able to reduce your risk right that's what trading is about risk and peanuts to e cavar so instead of having the larger Zone as your risk and having to wait a few days within it like that what you end up doing is being able to risk a smaller amount so if you look here this is about 82 Pips you're risking versus here here if you just waited for that flip that occurred within that zone what do you end up getting 34 Pips so you're able to reduce the amount of risk and still be able to have the same reward well even more just the same Target so um this is something that's important to pay attention to whether you're on a higher time frame or a lower time frame that you need to be sure you're in a higher time frame Zone that price is actually going to reverse from the price is actually going to reverse from if you look just up above us you see right here we have this low we have this High we put in this low here we trade back up above and what do we do we go down and violate it why because often times this is probably not in something back here from the higher time frame that's you know sufficient enough to reverse price right so this is this doesn't this doesn't change the fact that you have to follow Str structure going down until you get a flip but as you're following structure on the way down that flip needs to occur in what a higher time frame Zone a higher time frame Zone which was discussed in the market structure and the zones video so I want you guys to pay attention to that and again I said all assets right so let's go over to ethereum now here it is we have it on ethereum that's our same template right so what we see is this low we see this High put in we put in another low this is using Wix but this is the one minute time frame so now we trade up above we're expecting to tap back in and we're expecting price to continue right so what's our previous range what's our previous Zone previous range is right here so if we go forward we see ethereum on the one minute comes back Taps into the 50% of the zone right and then trades higher gives us that one one as well as can give us behind so you have to back test this and understand how far you can anticipate price running to in terms of your targets based on you understanding a multi-time frame approach with using this this is going to happen on the one minute this going to happen on the 4our it's going to happen on the weekly this will even happen on the yearly it doesn't matter what time frame you're on but you still have to be able to place this within what Market structure and then your zones now if it was this easy everybody would be a millionaire there are times where this is going to happen you're going to think it's it's what you think it is and then it's going to fail that's where back testing comes in if you try to trade this in a forward moving Market if you try to trade this forward testing you're going to get cooked while learning instead of being able to trade this against previous data that slate it to happen the same way in the future remember if it's an algorithm that then it does the same thing every day so if it's doing the same thing every day it's up to you to be able to wait and follow it until you see that moment and you can take part in a trade and exit whether it's the one to one whether it's the previous High I bought the low it doesn't matter what time frame you're on but this has to be paired with other Dynamics right let should be paired with that or else you're always going to end up getting liquidated chasing this little movement here without understanding that this is not a reversal we didn't deal with whether this is this flip is a reversal or whether this flip is a a a pullback whether it's a reversal or whether it's a pullback depends on where it is in higher time frame structure and that's dealt with in the market structure in zones video so you guys seeing this across all asset classes I hope you guys understand that you know this is something that you need to back test but this is something that you need to align with other confluences right higher time frame to lower time frame lower time frame order flow just facilitates higher time frame structure so this could be facilitating a higher time frame pullback into a higher time frame continuation what you're going to do is see this same thing up here happened to the top side sorry the same thing down here happened to the top side and when it happens to the top side that going to take you down that way and when it gets down here what are you going to see it's going to happen again down here and what is it going to do take you back up there until we end up taking out a protected High when we take out that protected High that's when that protected high is also going to be a structural high from a higher time frame not this one so when we take out that high then we go and take out let's say the 15-minute protector High then we go and take out the 4our protected High then we go and take out the daily protected High then we go and take out the weekly protected high and all of it through every time frame is going to end up looking like what the same thing cesti structure so I hope that this video was able to clear up some things for you guys and um you know I hope that you guys can use this in back testing and being able to take this from back testing and be able to apply it in a forward moving market and you know do what you need to do all right so I'll catch up with you guys later peace out

all right guys welcome to this long overdue video on timebase ranges I think this video will be very powerful for many people who they understand what they should look for but they don't know exactly where to look for it so when looking for a trade most people trade a particular pattern including ICT Traders whether it's waiting for the time for that pattern to show up or whether you're just trading the pattern itself you are trading a pattern it can be an engulfing bar it can be support and resistance right that resistance turns into new support we trade higher it could be Market structure you break the market structure low and then tap back into the previous range as we trade on this channel it could also be that price has given us the Quasi Moto pattern right we begin to trade lower it could be According to some volume that's back here but we're looking for opportunities that are within here based on patterns right whether it's a closure below the candle whether it's going under the EMA whether we see some exhaustion at the top it's all pattern that we are trading but most of the time we struggle with where to trade that pattern because these patterns show up everywhere but if we don't know where to take part in them then we end up struggling with being too early or too late or simply managing improperly so the goal of the video is to help you guys find trades on your own independently based on the model that you already trade with and answer some of the questions or solve some of the problems that many retail Traders face in regards to not knowing when where and how be sure to like this video to support the channel subscribe if you find this information helpful and turn on the notification bells to catch our live streams as well as any other video we drop on this channel all right guys so let's cut straight to the point about what we're looking for we have this 9:00 candle that's present here right these are numbered 7 8 9 10 11 this is Eastern Standard Time anything taught on this channel will always go based on Eastern Standard Time so this is a 9:00 a.m. candle what we see is that this 9:00 a.m. candle is bullish does that matter to us no what actually matters is where price closes after the 9:00 hourly candle prints so what we see here is that the 10:00 candle closed up above the 9:00 candle right so what we are using since this is considered time based ranges what we are using is the range itself the 9:00 candles range itself this 9:00 candle becomes a POI itself right so what we do is we take the Fib from the high to the low of the candle and being that we got the closure above here what we want to see is price trade back into the range of the 9:00 candle and then produce a move trading in the opposite Direction so there are a lot of times when the Market opens up and by 10 11:00 people are looking to trade higher with price and what we see is the market moves back the other way into the 9:00 a.m. candle and now you have a lot of people looking for the market to go lower below the 9 amm candle and what does price end up doing price ends up turning back to trade in the direction of the 10 the 11 o'clock candle and by lunchtime we we've put in another high so again the way that we Mark out our POI using the time base range is with a rectangle tool and our FIB right if you're new to the channel then you should know that our FIB only has three levels on it the 30 the 50 and the 70 that's 0.3 0.5 0.7 so you're using that from the top to the bottom or on the bearish side from the bottom to the top and then you'll use those levels to look for lower time frame confirmations to trade in that higher time frame expected Direction so on the bearish side this would be the 9:00 candle if we were using it with the same orientation as the bullish side but there are times where the 9:00 candle may be this candle here right you might have 10 you have 11 you have 12 you have 1:00 that trades back to that 9:00 range so all we would do is take the previous range of that candle you see there's no closure up above the 9:00 candle the closure actually happened on the downside so we would take the same 9:00 candle draw it across use the FIB the same way that we did on the bullish side and we'd look for price to tap into one of these levels up above and when it trades into this level we would be expecting price to move in the opposite direction so it can be any candle that presents itself as the 9:00 candle we would just need a closure above or below the 9:00 candle to use that 9:00 timebase range as a POI for price to tap back into and then give us a rejection going the other way so as we mentioned any candle can be the 9:00 candle the thing that we need to pay attention to after the 9:00 candle closes is where the next candle closes now as you see here when we use this example there was no close up above there but the close didn't happen until this candle so this would have likely been the 11:00 candle so if this closed on the 11:00 candle price can still trade away for the rest of the day and come back here tomorrow to tap into that 9:00 candle and then give you that rejection out this is not something that happens in every session I don't want to give you false expectations that the 11:00 candle should go back into the 9:00 candle and then price trades out there's no such thing as that if price moved in such a mechanical way then many of you guys would already be millionaires and you would not be watching this video to learn how to refine your trading because it would be as mechanical as going into the previous candle and then trading out right so we have to follow price and follow Christ and that's all rice but we have to follow price and allow price to show us what it's doing when it wants to go there and when it gets there it will give us lower time frame confirmations to be able to trade out of there just the same way it has in history you can go and back test this you can forward test this and you're going to see some similarities around it are there times where the 9:00 candle gets liquidated absolutely but we'll go over what to do when that occurs so at the same time there are two candles that this particular occurrence can happen on it's on the 9:00 a.m. candle and the 300 p.m. candle remember Eastern Standard time so that's the 9:00 a.m. candle and the 1500 candle so just the same way we marked out that this was the 9:00 a.m. candle and this was the 9:00 a.m. candle to the right right this could also be the 3 P.M candle the 1500 candle and while the 9:00 a.m. candle May benefit New York Traders the 3pm candle can benefit London traders to where London Traders can find pois that are around or near that 3pm candle to be able to take trades going in the opposite direction but I'll show you guys this on the chart so I could make you a Believer so I'll start with NQ since this is primarily what we trade I'll use the indicator by Wang indicators this is the structure pilot indicator I'll use it to highlight the hourly candles that I'm looking for in question so currently this version of it is highlighting the hourly candles for the 9:00 a.m. candle that's what I have as the opening range that's here 9 to 10:00 I'll ask them if they can edit it to create a second one to where they're able to mark out both the 9:00 a.m. and the 300 p.m. candle but what I'll do is manually Mark out the 3 p.m. candle and you guys can take a look at the 9:00 a.m. candle that it highlights so what we see is the 9:00 a.m. candle is here right you see price tap into the 9:00 a.m candle after the closure and what we see is this move trading out of it that's a pretty large move leaving right so we also have this one here where price closes below that candle Taps back into it and trades down it also trades back into it the next New York session uh this looks like uh a day later and we see price hit the 50% of it and we see a huge drop running from the 50% of it but on this 9 A.M candle we have this is uh Thursday December 7th we also have a closure that's there where what price Taps back into the 50% of it and then what do we see it trades higher right but let's go through the rest of this we also see the 9 A.M candle here price Taps back into the 9M candle trades higher we see the 9M candle here this is on the 11th price Taps back into it trades higher so you guys sort of understand what I'm looking for right I'm looking for a closure above the 9 A.M candle and then for price to tap back into 9M candle and give you a push going into the opposite direction now let's go back down down here and I I guess I missed this 9 a.m. candle back here as well you see price tapped into 900 a.m. candle and rejected down so what we want to do is manually Mark out the 3 P.M candle so here are all the 3 P.M candles marked out in the same area that we went through with price closing below the red lines represent the closure so we get a close down here in London you see price tap back in to that closure that 300 p.m candle and it rejects we see the closure that happens up here price comes right down and violates the low of the 3 P.M candle we talked about how this can be violated so over here we see price Taps into 3 pm candle and then trades away right up here we see price close below the 3pm candle tap back into it and then trades away so we see the common theme and pattern of price tapping back into these three PM candles and trading out the same way we saw price tapping back into the 9M candles and trading out so as mentioned both the 9:00 a.m. candle and the 300 p.m candle can be swept but one thing that I've noticed around the sweeping of these 900 a.m candles and 3pm candles is that when we get a sweep below often times There's an opportunity below it to trade back into to that range same thing here there's a sweep Above This 9 A.M candle this was likely a news candle that came in and what did we see price turn around and trade back towards that 9:00 a.m. candle so you can back test this if you want when it comes to the sweeps I see often times that price does hold but when it is that you do get that moment where price will sweep the candle there's a possibility for you to find an entry on the other side as that sweep seems to be a very important sweep to be able to turn price around back into the other direction so here's a few more that failed after the closure what we see is price traded up above gave us the body close it never came back to it until over here to the right we saw the sweep of it below and then what did price do run back into the range so here's another one up here price closed below there was a little tap away but price went up to sweep it when price swept it we saw a move going back into the range we another one here there's a closure up above price Taps onto the top of it fails to go higher then it sweeps it after it sweeps it what does it do it turns back into that range and here's another one here what we see is price closes up above Taps back on fails and then sweeps it but this is likely new so we have this large extension down and then we ended up down here so down here we have what another 3:00 candle right here 3 p.m. candle with a close we see price close up above it we see it tap back in and then we see it trade higher right so we don't want to necessarily pay attention to the ones that you know we we lose entries on right or the ones that do not hold just wait for your particular confirmation to occur in there it could be from any strategy it can be support and resistance it could be the Strat it can be S SPS it can be Uno do thress from Pepe it could be whatever it is that you have out there just wait for price to get to these areas wait for price to have these sweeps and then it's higher in likelihood that your entry will work out but I'm not promising that every single entry is going to work out you still have to manage risk you cannot be trading in these environments without a stoploss you cannot trade and think that you do not have to cover your position price can 100% go against you we've seen how many times this thing works out but we also see times that it does not these are hourly pois so the risk is larger Behind These zones and what you want to do is reduce your risk by looking for lower time frame confirmations and those lower time frame confirmations will allow you to pay peanuts to eat caviar I always tell people that my model for trading is that I want to risk a little to take home something that is worth it I do not work for free I do not want to come into this market and expose myself to a certain level of risk even if it's small and walk away with nothing that is always my goal when I'm getting into a trade how can I pay myself for this work that I'm currently doing because I do not work for free so to take a minute and look at a different asset like gold right whenever there's a sweep there's a push back in right whenever there's a sweep below you get to run back in right whenever price closes up above you get it to tap back in and trade higher right so there's a ton of things that are here with within this concept right here's another one right here there's another one right here the with the the closure right price Taps onto there there's another one right here with the closure price comes back and Taps onto it and trades higher so I've explained this thoroughly and in detail and when it fails versus when it holds how to look for an entry based on whatever Concepts it is that you trade it does not have to be DTF X Concepts but you need to know where to start your position where to begin looking and it needs to be data driven so if you ran the numbers on this if you went and back tested it maybe you see a sweep and then you look for the model after the sweep of it or you look for the model while it Taps into it look at what the win rate is like over time and you'd be able to find some stability within your trading for the sake of time I'll speedrun some of these assets but you're going to see some of the same things here's a closure here price does What tap back and trade higher this is es by the way closure here price does What tap back in trade higher closure here price doesn't return to here closure here right price does What tap back in up here and then trade higher right you get a closure here price does what liquidated what trade back into the range right you get a closure here price does what liquidated trade back into the range you get a closure here price does what it just continues down it leaves this behind right you get a closure here price does What tap back into a trade lower you get a closure right here price does what it rejects out of it absolutely but when it trades back up above it it trades back into that range you get a closure here price does what trade below it run back in and then reject out right so there's there's a ton of different things you can utilize with this a ton of different concepts a ton of different ways to get in you could look for your confirmations based on whatever school of thought you actually trade from but make sure that it's in and around these particular pois because they're high in likelihood for price to respect or give you where to look for your entry next if price doesn't respect the POI itself to run through this same thing again we see the 3 pm candle right so what we have is we get a sweep right here right we get well first we get a closure up here we sweep it below and then we see a move running back in right so you continue through this you get a closure above price sweeps it runs back in th this same thing is occurring everywhere you get a closure that's here price Taps back into it trades lower you get a closure there price sweeps it and continues down hey that's going to happen sometimes right but you get to sweep this down here price does what trade back into that range you get a closure right here price does What tap back into the range and trade out so we see how valid this is another closure here price TAPS in trades out so whether it's the 3pm candle whether it's the 900 a.m. candle you can use both of these candles in Dynamic ways to be able to find entries that will hold or find entries that are higher in likelihood to hold let me say that but we can go to any asset every asset you want and look at it through this same lens and you'll see that often times price does reverse on the sweep of it bit or often times when price Taps back into it after a closure you do get a nice move on the lower time frames being able to trade in the opposite direction so for the people who have struggles with counter trending and holding because they don't want to be wrong so they dollar cost average into their entries you need to trade in the fold of this particular Dynamic happening in happening in price because your entry is higher and likelihood to hold and instead of getting burnt on those positions where you enter into a trade and because you're not sure about the position so you remove your stop loss and price just begins to dump into one of these directions now you can just wait for it to get to these areas right wait for it to get to these pois and time it properly yeah you're going to take some losses absolutely but it's better for you to take entries in data driven data backed price Cycles so we understand that every time there's a sweep we often see a move going back into the range we also understand that every time we get a closure there's a high likelihood for price to tap back in so now you have two possibly three entries around two candles with different kinds of behavior to it different kinds of volatility you can trade them in different sessions to where price will be on your side most times go and back test it if you take entries lower time frame entries in these po you'll see that more likely than not your model works out better than just randomly grasp ing at straws and taking the model wherever it is you see without it being in a particular area of Interest now I can go through every single asset and back test it with you but you can do the same thing yourself go back into the history of some of the trades that I've called some of the pois that I've mentioned hey I want a short here I want a long here even go to the last stream that just occurred on Friday and you'll see that I mentioned I wanted a short from a particular POI right but look and see if this POI is present that will help to show you that this is something that I am looking for and something that I am trading in real time and something that you can trade in real time too you just have to be able to spot it you have to be comfortable with it and you're only going to gain that level of comfortability with back testing with the reps with seeing it more times than you don't so you need to isolate this and then forward test it create a plan around it when it gets into the POI what is your lower time frame confirmation to get in that can come from anywhere not just dtfs but this is my gift to day Traders I used to day trade a lot I don't really day trade as much I might take one trade during the day but more times I'm swing trading now I do have a Time based range and time based POI for the swing time frame the weekly the monthly this thing goes into so many different uh assets so many different markets it's insane but this is just the one that I wanted to wrap up and give as a gift to those who are still trading the lower time frames and I'm also letting you guys know that you don't have to live on those seconds time frames you can go into the 5 minute and take the 5 minute entry that's around this particular constants right you can take the one minute entry you can take a 15minute entry you might be able to just take the range itself and take a one to one on the Range but there are so many different creative things you can do with this where you don't have to keep getting cooked on the lower time frames neither do you have to work like an elephant and eat like an ant you can do more with your time if you just learn to refine and then move up a time frame that will buy you more of your time to do things in the real world so I hope you guys enjoyed this video and be sure to tag me on X at Dave tees FX to let me know that this video has helped you with some of your entries during intraday and as always I appreciate you guys for all the support that you've given me thus far on this channel take care and I'll see you guys in the next video

so this video is going to require the use of a 21 EMA right so you just go to indicators type in EMA and all you do is put 21 on it we have it at the close and these are the settings here now you could leave it on chart if you want the EMA for the chart that you're on the time frame you're on or you can choose a particular time frame that you want the EMA on so it stays stagnant to the time frame that you're following the emema on but these are the EMA settings so let's get right into it here we have a video detailing how to use the 21 EMA this is being used in conjunction with structure right so traditionally we used to Trail through the highs and when price would trade below take out that low if it moved back up and put in another high then our Trail would go from up here to here now what we're using is the 21 EMA I'm putting this High sorry we take out the low here and then we go back up above that's called what a bullish flip we understand that from the market structure course that we have right so within here what we have is this zone is known as the sndr The Zone that's responsible for breaking the high here so now what you see is the e ma that's present here after the to of the zone so what we have is price taking out the high of this Zone here or the high this this internal High we break it here and then we tap back into the 30% so depending on where your entry is from you now have entered along maybe off of the the internal sndr here that tapped into the larger sndr to the left your stop is directly behind the zone and previously what we would do is Trail through these lows right price would put in a low put in another high we would Trail here and what get taken out right so we get taken out early and the rest of this runs higher so what we've been using now is that same Trail after we get a close up above the EMA and price PR takes out this high right here right now our stop loss is underneath this low where our entry was at our stop loss is now at break even so as we begin to trade or Trend higher we begin to Trend higher anytime price closes below the 21 EMA and then moves back up above it that's where our Trail gets placed that low there right so on the way back up what we see is price is moving higher and higher but there's no closures happening under this EMA right so what we anticipate when price goes below the EMA then runs back up above is we anticipate an impulse run higher right so now what we're looking for is these small Taps that fail to run through the low of the EMA and close and once price begins to run with multiple green candles to the high now we are trailing behind these green candle lows just like that right so in the event that you don't want to Trail as aggressively and get taken out because you placed your stop underneath a low and then it traded through that low and then traded higher what you can do is wait for another closure below the EMA so there's another closure below the EMA your entry was down here and now you placed your stop directly behind that closure and what did price do price came down and took out that low so instead of your entry being here right and having to take profit up above here maybe it's internal High maybe something else that you know might be within here right now you can just Trail this entry all the way up until price delivers you a closure below the EMA there and then trades back up above it so this entry would have ended up being a 64 Point run right instead of just targeting something lower down here that would have been maybe a one to one which on to ones are fine right but this is for people who want to be able to manage their entries after they've taken it you can use the EMA as your management here's another example on gold where price takes out the high trades back into the sndr let's say your entry was here right on the sndr your stop directly behind the sndr right here what you see now is you follow the closures below the EMA so what we have is a closure here and what do we do we get back up above it right so now the stop that was previously here goes here right and then we have another closure here right and then it moves back up above it so the stop moves higher to here and now we have another closure over here and then we move back up above it so now the stop moves higher to here and before you know it instead of forfeiting these these entries right or forfeiting the run that would have happened on this entry right instead of forfeiting it below a low that did not close below the EMA and then price begins to run higher on you which you can do is use this EMA to manage underneath price would have taken you out right at this and right at this low here right there and that could have ended up being what a 1 to 11R run just managing underneath those lows that closed below the EMA and then trade it back up above it here's another example but on oil price Taps into this sndr here you stops behind the sndr you're looking for price to go higher right and what do we end up getting a tap into the sndr and we trade out and we get a closure up above so guess what this entry now here would be underneath that low that's there right and we see price trade back up above it and run but there's no closures until here so now that entry goes below below that low you see price on the closure under that EMA and it trades higher when it moves back below here it doesn't trade below that low so here's an example on us30 right price flips up above that high price Taps into the 50% of the Zone we take the entry there stops directly behind the zone and what we end up seeing is that instead of targeting something within here or looking to partial at these highs because you're unsure of whether price is going to come back to your entry what you do is you wait for the closure below the EMA and then you see price runs back up above the EMA so now instead of your stop being here now your stop is here right your stop is at this low so where do we get another closure we get another closure up above here right so now your stop goes here and when you see that run that begins to trade back up above to these highs your stop is directly below this low the last low that closed through the EMA then traded back within and took out the high so now we have another closure here at this low after that high is taken so where does this entry Trail to that low there right and now we look at more closures we have another closure up above here right so now your entry is trailing under this low and as long as we stay above this EMA right you do not have to aggressively Trail any of the lows that could potentially be taken out you can wait until we get a closure to move your stop directly behind the low that closed through the EMA and trade it back up above and before you know it you could maximize the r in your entry right at the reversal and you could maximize the potential of the profit that you're able to get on some of these entries by just waiting for the EMA closure below the 21 EMA right and then we see price continue back back up above okay so here's Bitcoin now we have this previous High taken right this is the flip that we're looking for our entry is down here on the sndr right whether it's the top whether it's the center of the sndr our entry is here and now we're waiting for price to get back up above this High here so what we'll do is we'll use this as our our Trail and we'll begin to see the potential that you can get every time price gets up above a previous high so here's that previous high and our Trail would be at this low that's fine here's another high to the left right and this is on the 15minute time frame so this works on all time frames now our stop goes behind the low that brought us to that previous High just like in the Euro USD example so now our price takes out our our um entry takes out the previous High there and what we do is we Trail our stop through that low now we go up again above the previous high and what we do is Trail our stop through that low we go up again to this previous High We Trail our stop through that low so what this essentially is doing is allowing us for whatever our entry is down below when we flip not to Trail so aggressively to where we get taken out but it allows us to maximize the r and the profit potential that we have every time we get a closure below an EMA or the 21 EMA and price trades back up above the high so as you see here there's the high there now this goes below the low because we took out that previous High here's a previous high on the pullback below the EMA we see price go back up above it our stop goes behind here and so on so forth we continue to watch this trade higher we continue to Trail our stop higher and this allows us to squeeze out most of the profit in the one position that we're in rather than having to find so many reentries back into price so there's another high taken there here's the closure that would be below this low and we see that this would have stopped us out at about 8 R before what before price reversed to the downside here's an example on a stock the 15minute time frame for nvda we trade up above that internal High there we go back to tap into this sndr or this down move before price traded higher if you chose to put your stop you chose to enter on the top put your stop directly behind the sndr and you begin to allow price to move away right allow price to trade and you just anticipate trailing so we have this low right here followed by this high up above and what we'll do is we'll continue to Trail this idea the same way we did everything else right there's that high that's that's put in Above This high now here's the low that entry would be at break even so we continue to watch it move its way up there there's the high here's the low here um underneath this low that's what closed below the EMA trade it back up above we move it there's the high that put us below the EMA we trade it back up above after we close below the EMA there right here's another high here right and what you see is we drop below the EMA but we fail to take the high right so this would have likely stopped us out here for a total of 4.7 R almost 5 R and again when you're at the second or the sorry when you're at the third or the fourth swing what you could essentially do is aggressively trail behind the green candle lows in anticipation for Price reversing the other way so you have two different Trail methods the first first is when price reverses and now you're trailing below these lows that closed below and traded back up above the previous high and then the other method is after a certain swing count you know three to four swings now you're going to Trail the green candle lows anticipating that price could potentially reverse and come back to your entry or maybe stop you out at a lower position right so this trailing method is just to squeeze out as much as you can in in the entries that you get into that there are reversals so you're not managing behind any of these lows and it becomes tricky to the point where price stops you out then goes to the higher time frame Target that you have here's an example on Euro USD where we see price takes out this low trades back into the sndr above right here and then price trades away from it right so if you're short was on the sndr with stops directly behind the sndr and now you're you're looking for price to leave that entry here's what can happen while you're using this trailing method so here what we end up seeing is we see a closure up above the EMA while we're short and then we get a close back below but if you guys hear what I said earlier in the video I said that if we get a close below the low then you're able to move your stop loss directly behind the high so did we get a closure below this low no so this entry while it can be at break even for you to protect your position right or protect your Equity we have not had a closure that traded back below the low that brought us up above the EMA so unfortunately this entry would still be at break even here but you'd be trailing as soon as we get through this low so we have a close that's up above the EMA here and then price moves back to the low that brought us above the EMA so now our entry is trailed behind here just a couple points in profit or a couple Pips in profit so what you see here is that we trade back up above that EMA and then we go back below it right so now your entry is or your stop your trailing stop is here right so you look at the kinds of r that you're getting on this trailing method we see that we trade up above the EMA again and then we go back below the EMA and we close there right so so now your your trailing stop is here right at this high right here and what we end up seeing is price trading higher up above the EMA here than going back below the EMA right but we do not have a close below so one method that you can consider if you have this kinds of price action is that whenever we get to the third or fourth swing what you can do is start to Trail the down candle highs when we're bearish or the up candle lows when we're bullish so you could maximize more R within that same move and then price would have likely taken you out right here at this low here's the same thing on bonds where price trades up above the high price comes back to tap into the 30% of the zone and it leaves let's say your entry was here your stop loss was directly behind the zone or sometimes people put their stop at the 70% right so let's just use behind the zone for example price begins to leave and run away right what we want to look at is where we closed below the 21 EMA and then we traded back up above it right so now your stop would be directly behind here then we have another close below the EMA and then we traded back up above it right so now your stop is moved to here right and before you know it you're in a three-hour entry on bonds to where again after the third swing what you can do is Trail the bullish candle lows and you can squeeze out the most out of that ENT entry so this ends up being a 4.8 r with that kind of um trailing stop but this allows you to maximize the potential profit of your entries when you get in in a good position on a reversal Here's the final example on the US dollar versus the Mexican peso right so price Taps into that zone price trades out of it your entry would be at the 50% of the Zone if you want to or maybe refined it to you know something else in the playlist right price runs up above that previous High there and now let's Trail it because this works in every single Market you can trade so now we have that closure up above there and we have our stop at break even now on that closure so this answers the question of when should you go to break even when it takes out the high that put in the low right so now we've traded below this low with a body closure now your stop loss has Trail directly behind this low here and as we continue up we see how it maximizes the potential R each time that it trades up above an old high right so now instead of taking profit at some internal High here taking profit at the high now you can Trail your stop right to where you're able to squeeze out the most out of your entry before price trades higher right so now we have this low here we see that the stop would be directly behind here this is on a daily chart it's doing the same thing that a one minute chart would do is it'll do the same thing that a 5-second chart would do so that's how we as dtfs Traders are going to utilize the 21 EMA to Trail our ideas this does not replace Market structure this does not replace supply and demand this does not replace how we enter into price right this just enhances our ability to manage our entries along the way to maximize the most profit that we can before price turns around on us if you guys like this video comment below um send me some suggestions on what else you want me to do next and I'll see you guys for the next one

But you remember that I lost $18,000 when I first started trading. That might seem like a little bit to some people, that might seem like a lot to some people, but that was my my the the very beginning of my learning. Guess what? That's all I had. $18,000 gone. I had my last 600 left. I was injured. I was I I had no income coming in because I was awaiting two major surgeries. I thought in my bright mind, let me just speed past the learning portion and just try to get out there and make some money without actually knowing how to read a chart. I was so ignorant. I said that I am going to learn how to do this without reading a chart. I'm going to be the first person to become a millionaire without reading a chart. Imagine how foolish I am thinking that. Right? While I'm in a position where I have no income coming in, while I have mouths to feed, while I have expenses that I have to take care of that I don't know how I'm going to be able to take care of these things because of my injuries and awaiting surgery. I always talk about the time you have left, right? You have to figure out how to make decisions when you're hanging on by a thread. What did I do? I chose to be ignorant in my approach to the process and throw that money into the market trading options. This is why I went back to options. I went back to options to redeem myself. And now I'm I'm so much further ahead than what I lost back then. Now I laugh at that little loss. I always talk about people not having enough money left to trade. That was me. So I had to figure out how to trade with an offshore brokerage, 500 times leverage, and try to live out of that account, which I did. I did succeed, but but it was difficult. It was hard. There was some dark places that I was in. There was some lows and when I thought that it couldn't get lower, went even lower. Right? Went even lower. Some dark places I had There were times where I I woke up and I didn't want to wake up. There were times where I went to sleep and I asked God to take my life. I don't even want to live anymore. I didn't have the desire to live. Yeah, I felt those ways and I was the person who put myself in that position. I was the person who put my children in that position. I was the person who put my loved ones in that position and like a coward, I wanted it to just all go away because I wasn't strong enough at the time to turn around and say, "Hey, I have to fix the things that I did and it's not going to happen now. It's not going to happen tomorrow. It's not going to happen next week and it may not even happen next month, but every day that I show up, it's a little more that I'm giving to be able to achieve or recover whatever it is that I lost due to my own actions. My own actions. I don't blame anybody else for it. It was me. It was my fault. It was failure to be able to look into the future and have a plan for it. I was living in the moment. How dare I know that there are people who depend on me and I'm living in now, right? Not thinking about anything ahead. I had to really shift my mindset during that time. And that's essentially where the the I to tell you guys, your discipline should match your desperation. Honoring your plan is honoring your family. I only had trend lines at the time. Only had trend lines. And I would trade oil and oil would have a trend line break in the morning and a trend line break in the in the evening. Sorry, not the evening, the the PM session. Trend line break in the afternoon. So, if I wasn't there for the morning trend line break, I had to be there for the afternoon trend line break. So, when people, you know, criticize Tory trades and all of that other stuff, I get it. Her the way she approaches things is just like the trading for vloggers, you know, like it is something like that. So, she gets a lot of criticism for that, but the multi-timeframe trend line approach, that's what I was using. Multi-timeframe trend lines, and that brought me to multi-timeframe structure. And then I started to understand the little details within multi-timeframe structure, which allowed me to be able to take part in either side of the market. Then I got stuck trading both sides of the market, and that's where things got a little more difficult for me. So, then I started to have to understand how to operate on one side. And when I first started, I was great at taking long, but I was horrible at shorts. So, I began to implement certain things to essentially patch up that the short-sidedness in my trading, that that the struggle, that obstacle. And as a result, in a bull market, I was just taking shorts and making money taking shorts. In a bear market, I was just taking longs. I actually learned how to trade in a bear market, but I understood that I can't trade consistently across time if I still struggle with only being able to see one side. So, I had to do something to implement some change there. Because I know in the future, the thing I didn't consider when I was actually raising my kids, right? In the future, I know that a market conditions is is going to show up, and it's going to be that side that I don't like. The side that I struggle with, and I need to be able to trade that. Or else, whatever it is I make on the way up, I'm going to lose on the way down. So, I had to deal with me as a trader, me as a as as a as a person as a operator in this market. I had to look at what I've done and not pay attention to that. I wasn't trading as I mentioned in this scenario, looking in the rearview mirror. I lost that already. It was $18,000 gone. Had $600 left. And trading with leverage, you can trade with a smaller amount of money and still make a larger amount of money, but you don't have to use all of the leverage. That's what people think when you have 500 leverage, people think that it's crazy, you shouldn't be trading with that. No, it's just a lower cost to entry, or a lower barrier to entry. So, if I wanted to trade a dollar per point and I wanted to risk $30, $40 on the trade, it would only cost me a small amount in margin to be able to trade a dollar per point on a small account versus if the leverage was lower, I would have to have a larger amount in margin just to trade that same dollar per point. Right? So, leverage is not bad. Stop making people, you know, convince you that it is. It is not bad. Leverage is just how much you have to put up initially to handle the position into a smaller amount. When you put down a down payment for a loan for a home, when you put down a down payment for a loan for a car, that's that's you using leverage. That's what you're doing. You don't hear anyone say, "Don't take out a mortgage. Make sure you can pay the whole thing off." You don't hear people saying that, right? But, that's what leverage is. It's just being able to use a smaller amount, a smaller account. So, if I have $600 in my account and I want to use $100 in margin and I'm willing to risk $30 per trade, but I want to trade a pair and scalp it and and each point that the pair moves, it's a dollar per point with that. So, I can give up 30 points for this, right? Now I have $100 in margin, $500 in equity and I'm using my stop to risk that $30 that is there or whatever it is that the stop is. Sometimes the stop can be $15. Sometimes the stop can be $10 based on whatever time frame I'm trading, whatever pair that I'm trading and I'm just scalping those little things. So, I was able to make $10 here, $30 there, $50 there. This is what I was doing in the very beginning. And I was taking that small amount of money that I was making on the little bit of money that I had left. And I was paying bills with it. Trading became real to me. The effort that I was put It became real to me. I was able to take $70 out and buy food for my kids. At one point food was running out, so I was skipping meals. I was not eating, so the the food can last a little longer for them. But I was so destroyed inside that I even put them in this situation. I put them in this [clears throat] place as a man as as a provider of their shelter. Somebody that's supposed to protect them. The person that's responsible for raising them. I was crushed on the inside that I couldn't even talk about it. Couldn't even say anything to anyone [clears throat] about it. Just crushed that I lost that much and did not know what to do. Granted, it was going to slow bleed anyway because it took 2 to 3 years to actually get those different, you know, those different surgeries that I had and get treatment and I couldn't I couldn't find a job that that would work with that kind of disability. I I had no options left other than trading. Trading was the last thing it had to work out, but what the way I approached it the first time was wrong. And I had to take a step back and say, "Hey, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You lost $18,000. You have $600 left to your name. You are not looking to full port this. After this, there is nothing left. So, you need to figure out how to actually read a chart, how to actually do this. And once you learn how to do this, you need to have a goal set, and you need to work towards that goal with a plan, with a process. I was working towards that goal with just those little scalps here, little scalps there, right? I was working towards that. And it became so real to me because I was able to take out $50 to pay the Wi-Fi for another three for another 1 month, sorry. I was able to take out $70 to buy some groceries. I was feeling better about what I was doing in terms of the work and the the carefulness that I had in terms of how I was approaching trading. And the benefit that came from it, it only reinforced that I should continue to trade in this controlled way. So, I use certain instruments that did not move as chaotic. I was using oil, I was using uh EUR/USD, I was using US 30. I wasn't trading NQ, I wasn't trading gold, I wasn't trading all these things that I wanted quick profit from. No, I needed things that were slow and structured, and things that cost less to be able to get into a trade with. So, those things, EUR/USD, US 30, there's a couple of pairs that are there that you can use, things that are a bit slower. And for, you know, the option side, and I wasn't, you know, even going back to that because I was so embarrassed by it. You can still use other things that are that are smaller, that that move a little less, but I was able to pull out these little bits and pieces from the market and slowly build my account and be able to pay certain bills till the next month. And before I knew it, that $600, I said that I'm going to have $20,000 saved up in the next 4 months. With only $600, right? I was delusional. At least that's what people would call me. That's what they would label me. I used to watch certain people on YouTube and they used to be like, "If you're trading for money, you should quit. You should You should give it up. You Trading for money is the worst thing you're not going to make it." I used to hear that all the time and reject that. Maybe for you, but I have enough discipline and I'm going to make sure I honor my family while I'm doing this. So, I do not have to accept your limitations. I used to say that all the time while I was working through it. This is what people were were saying. Imagine if I listened to that. Imagine if I I even internalized that. Allow that to be spoken over me. I get that it's difficult to do, but some people are not in a position where they have another plan. They have something else that could work out for them. I was a very prideful Jamaican man. I said, "I am not going on welfare. I'm not using public assistance." Now, granted granted, I'm not saying that that's bad for anybody. Some people That's That's the low that they're in in their life and and that's something that helps to be able to, you know, stabilize things, especially with kids, and then they find their way to get out of it, right? I'm not speaking bad on on anyone who chooses that, but I was raised differently. I saw father who essentially had to take care of all of these children and he got up every day and did what he was supposed to do without ever uttering a complaint, without ever missing a day of work. I watched him get up and do that. I watched how difficult it was for him, barely spending money on himself. I watched him continue to try as hard as he could to take us out of an impoverished situation and bring us to a better life, all off of being in a single income home. And he worked as hard as he could to be able to get us where he got us. And whether the the kids were grateful or not, right, he still did it. Whether things were fine between him and my mother or not, he still did it. And he I never ever heard him complain about it. Ever. Never heard him complain, right? So, he gets laid off in 2008, 2009. And now he has all of these kids and has to figure out whatever it is that that he needs to do to bring in income to maintain the standard of living that we had. And I saw him get up every day and sit at the computer. And he would I I don't know what he was doing on at that time. I I was, you know, very young. But so I'd sit at the computer and he would just sit there every day. He would wake up, make his coffee, sit at the computer. And then, when the day was done, by the time the sun was coming down, he would go shower, eat dinner, go to bed, get back up early, sit at the computer, and do the same thing over and over and over again. He was searching for something in this computer that would change or that would that would make the situation better for his kids. So, he sat there until something happened, until something changed. He did not get out of that seat at all until something changed, until something happened. And that was the example that I had. So, while I might have made mistakes in the past, I remember what it was like for someone who did not plan the things that happened in life appropriately, but they rose to the occasion to make sure that they would they would solve it. Do whatever it is they needed to to change the situation for us. And he did it. Until the day he died, he did it. Right? And that was my example. And how dare I act like I did not have people as I was coming up that cared about me so much that they did the things they were supposed to do even when they did not want to do it. They chose me and not themselves. How dare I do that to the people depending on me? That was the mindset shift. And while I spent a huge portion of my life making mistakes, now it was time to put those things away. Stop looking in the rearview mirror. Stop living life in the past. And it was time to actually move forward and do whatever it is that needs to do in those moments. So, I wasn't comparing myself to anyone. I didn't have any groups to join, right? I didn't know there were trading communities and and I didn't know there was trading Twitter. I didn't know anything like that. And I didn't know, you know, there's no record of me online learning from anybody, asking anyone any questions. No one can ever say I was in their Discord doing whatever it is and I'm not saying that that it's a bad thing, right? Some people need that guidance, but for me, I knew that everyone that I watched in a position where they had enough money to be able to talk like this, they all said to others, "If you're trading for money, you're never going to make it. You're never going to be able to do this." They all said that. So, because I was tired of hearing that, because I knew that those words I could not accept for the life that I had, for the circumstance I was in, I stopped listening to it all and I started following just the market. Found one thing that worked, there was trend lines at the time, and just continued to follow that. And it became so real to me, and I kept saying to myself, if I can just master this one thing, if I can just time this properly, then my entire life is set. So, I got to double down on this. And I told my partner, I said, "Listen, the next few months is going to feel like we are roommates. It's going to feel like this is not even a relation, but there's a goal in mind that I have for this. It's just I need the time to be able to do this." Some people have given you the opportunity and the time to do this. And you've repaid them with disrespect. You spent time playing video games. You used that time to be online just yapping, right? You spent that time wasting it in in Discords and watching watching entertainment or whatever it is. And they're out there busting their chop to bridge the gap for your inability to provide right now. And you've wasted so much time, and that's why they don't respect what you're doing. They consider it a hobby. They don't even look at what you're doing as any real thing. When you going to stop and get a job? That kind of stuff should not happen if you have people that are allowing you to have that time to do this. That's disrespectful to them. It's disrespectful to them. It's disrespectful to your family. That At least that's how I viewed it, right? Not here to step on anybody's toes. I'm talking about me and what I felt in those moments. I have friends that I lost on on the other side of trading. Because those were friends who still wanted to do things to to, you know, just live in the moment and not better their lives. I used to be an avid Call of Duty player. I used to be I mean, my KD was 2.5, right? You guys know what KD is. You Well, people who play video games. 2.5, right? I had a a crazy high KD. I was great at the game. But, I have friends who were also just as good, and their lives were falling apart, and they chose to escape through the video games. And I'm like, "Hey, I I can't continue to do this. Let's trade together. Let's learn this together." I tried to teach them. And they watched the power of trading. They watched the power of trading actually benefit my life. And I was still trying to get them to join in, and they didn't want it. They just wanted the benefit of having access to the work that I did. I even bought one of them a car. But, they didn't want to do anything. This This was trading profits. No Nobody knew me online. You It was those Dave Teachers, DTFX, whatever it was in the beginning. I think I used to be I used to call myself One Minute Man, you know, all all these different names that I came up with because I didn't know what I was going to be, [laughter] right? But, I had no public presence. No public presence at all. I, you know, essentially had to rise above that. I had to get rid of those people in my life because they they were not they were not conducive to the the journey. They wanted to benefit through access, but they didn't want to put in the time, put in the work. And soon enough, you just have a bunch of people that are around you who just had they have their hand out, but they don't know how hard you worked to be able to place whatever it is in their hand. So, I had to separate from them to rise above that. And then the minute that I chose to deviate from what they were doing, I was a bad person. That's how they characterized me. I They thought that I believed I was better than them. They no longer could take advice from me because my life was going in in a direction where they saw that trajectory begin to rise, and they felt a way about it. They they felt offended. They felt offended. You will lose people on this journey, especially when you become successful. You believe that when you become successful, everybody's going to love you? No, they're not. No, not in the trading industry, not in real life. No, they're not going to love you. No, you did something everyone was not willing to do and you achieved something that's so hard for other people to achieve and just naturally, there's just this opposition that they develop where they don't like you anymore or they're they're going to leave you out of things or they're going to feel inferior to you and they won't even take the help that you're giving them, but they will talk about how bad of a person you've become. They don't want to be around you anymore. Those things are going to happen. I don't know why it happens. I don't know why. So, when people talk about placing yourself in in in positions where people are doing better than you in life, that's so true because when people are not doing better than you in life, they start to pull down on you, right? They need to try and humble you. Humble You You try to humble me, trust me. Oh, I've been humbled by the humblers of all humblers, right? I've been humbled. I've ate humble pie until I wanted to throw up, until I felt sick and I had to keep on eating, right? And learn how to digest it. Get some Tums. So, people people try to take it upon themselves to put that on you and it it gets difficult because while you're in the process of making these decisions and you have to be working at the the peak level of yourself, you have this opposition that's going on in your personal life and online where people just don't like you for no reason at all. They don't even know you and they don't like you. You're losing things in real life. You're losing people along the way. People that meant a lot to you. People that you never thought would switch up on you. You held them close, but you realize they never held you close. The only reason why you were there is because you were in the same position as them and that's as far as they would allow you to go. And once you start to better your life, now they're they're the your biggest hater. Now everything they say is negative towards whatever journey you have. They're they're the the the voice of the accuser. They're they're the the loudest negative person in your life. Anything you say, they have the negative side to give to you. That is what I had to go through growing as a trader. So I had all of these ideas that I'm going to take all of these people with me. My first trip was to Columbia. Right? And their dental work is much is very is very cheap. A lot cheaper than the states. So that's why I go there for dental work, right? My first trip was there. And when I was in that hotel room, all the people that I aspired to take with me, right? I was there by myself. A foreign country I've never been to, not knowing how to speak the language, understanding I'm there for a particular reason, right? To fix all the the dental issues that I have from young that I could not fix due to being in poverty, right? Or parents not not dealing with those things or the unfortunate things that happened to me in life. And I thought all the guys were supposed to be there with me and I ended up being there by myself. And I said, "You know what? If they don't want learn any of this, I'm going to turn on the camera and I'm going to teach the world this. I'm going to teach other people out there this. What good is it that this will benefit my life and my kids can now have a great life and get whatever it is they want and then other people's children are struggling. Other people don't have a chance. What good is this? If they don't want to accept it, somebody out there will. And this is where in early 2022, I just turned on the the live stream. And I was just streaming and and explaining little things that I was doing in trading. And with the master class, everyone loves that master class and you know, it has you know, tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands of views on certain videos. And it's no longer on YouTube, but there was only 20 something people that attended that. And I was very I wasn't as articulate as I am now. So, I had to take a public speaking class. And this public the public speaking class, it was 12 years old. It was a video that was 12 years old on YouTube. So, this video was from 2010 that I was watching. And it was just this woman that was explaining how to appeal to the public, how to story tell, all these different and the the the resolution was horrible. But, I sat there and listened to the video and took what this person was saying. I didn't have Oh, can you can you take your face out of the shot and can you make this a little more clear you know, I I wasn't at Burger King ordering it my own way. I whatever it way it was that was that was presented, I had to be able to take from that and then you utilize that, apply that. I wanted to actually learn and build that part of myself. I already built this part where I was able to pull money out of thin air. So, now I had to build myself as a person. You think just because you start making money it it it ends there. No, because now when you take that money and you go to places where only money can take you, you realize the different things that you lack. You realize the knowledge that you lack to be able to actually be in those places and and you know, connect with others, even get yourself through the door. You're going to have to build up yourself. You're going to have to from the inside. I solved the problems that were going on with, you know, the things that were going on with my kids and the housing situation. I solved that already. But, it didn't stop there. It wasn't like, "Yeah, let me go get a Rolex. Let me go and buy this expensive vehicle. Let me go" No, I I didn't care about those things. I finally had time to breathe. I didn't have Most people when when they're working, at least for Americans, right? For for me, at the time, it was just from one job to the next job to the next job to the next job to the next job to the next job to the next situation, the next situation, the next situation, the next situation. I didn't have time to sit down and breathe. Time to actually look back on my past and the decisions that I made and introspect. But, trading slowed my life down. And this is why I talk about people who are rushing, because it wasn't until my life slowed down that I realized how everyone's in a rush. They get up, prepare the kids, take them to school, rush to get to work early. If there's traffic, they end up getting there late. All these different tasks they have to do within their job. Then they get out of the job. They have to go and pick up the kids, and then go grocery shopping, and then go and and cook food, and then have to do all the things they have to do in the evening, and then go to sleep, get back up and do the same thing all over again. And they're just rushing. I'm looking in the supermarkets and even in the parking lots, the way people are driving out there. And everyone is rushing. Why is everyone in a rush? What is going on? And I realized they're in a rush because they don't actually have control over their lives. They don't actually have control over it. In order to be able to afford to live, the job controls their schedule. And they dangle the little dollars in front of them and make them feel powerless and do whatever it is that they want to do to that individual, right? For the hard workers, you know what I'm talking about. To that individual, and they use that as the incentive to maybe boost the positions that they're in, but it also takes away from that person's life on the other side of it. You always feel like the the guys who are above you, your your managers or regional managers or whoever it is, they have better lives. They they have it easier. Yeah, that's because they're using the people in the lower half to do most of the work, and they take the credit for it. And then it's now give you more work, and now you become the cash cow for them, and they just dangle the dollar around you and make you you want to jump, they put the dollar up, you jump. Go to the left, go to the right. They they use the dollar like that. So, I had that kind of moment where I was able to stand still for the first time and breathe. Now I start to notice different things. I'm able to notice different patterns or certain details in life a lot easier, a lot faster. That's like the trader that trade as if they're a squirrel looking for a nut, and they're just taking scalp that, scalp that, scalp that, scalp that, scalp that, scalp that, scalp that, scalp that, scalp, scalp, scalp, scalp, scalp, scalp, scalp, scalp, scalp. That That's the people trading like that. Right? That you're you're still in that mindset. And for some people who are in the mentorship, I told them, "When you enter into a trade and you have your defined risk, set a timer for 10 minutes. Don't touch that entry. 10, 15, whatever it is you want to do. But after you enter, set a timer for 10 minutes. You'll realize that all of that up, down, down, up, up, down, down, up, you don't have to do. You don't have to, as I always say, work like an elephant and eat like an ant." That's essentially what you're subjecting your time to, but it's something in life that you've become adjusted to that now it's carrying over into your trading. It's carrying over to your trading. So, there's there's just all of these different things I was able to do as a person on the other side of trading. Trading bought me that time to do it. I say this all the time. It bought me the time. It made more time for me. So, if you have a particular experience of just being able to take this entry, scalp a couple of points, you accept that profit, you build that into more profit, you risk that for more profit. Now, that essentially puts you in a position where you can take time off of work, unpaid time, and you not feel it. Then, you could end up leaving work, or whatever it is, you start to be able to build up time in the future to be able to use that in different ways. Time is the true currency, not money. Money buys you time. Buys you the ability to use it. Buys you the access to it. But, time is the true currency. And that's not that foolish ICT stuff. Please don't don't even But, this is this is what trading essentially gave me. But, I had to slow down. I had to choose one thing. Trying to do all the different things at once, I had to choose one thing. And when I chose that one thing, out of that one thing, everything else occurred. And I realized that that's how it is in real life, too, not just in trading. You're already still in that mindset. The slave to the system of the world out there. You're still a slave to that. And you need to just slow down. You just slow down. One thing at a time. You multitask is not good for the brain. And guess what? You have the ability to multitask and do all of these things, that just means that they really really trained you to be a good worker. They they really trained you up. They they they gave the best effort to make you the person that could be abused in every way they want, right? There's no There's There's no bragging rights for that. None at all because that just makes you as That just makes you more resilient than other people to be taken advantage of. You want to have control of your own time. You want to do your do things your own way and at your own pace. It was doing one thing that got me out of that, not knowing everything. I didn't even know who certain people were in the industry when I was first learning. And I'm grateful for that. How do I know who the top figures are in a particular industry before I even know how to trade? I will learn them later on. Oh, Al Al Brooks, you said? No, Brooks. Al Brooks, he's the father of price action. No, I I don't know who that is. Is Okay, yeah, he He taught price He's He's the one that pioneered it. Okay, yeah, that's that's okay. Yes, I'm glad to hear that. And I'm right back to my own process because I don't know who that guy is and I don't need to know who these people are. I don't know who's scamming. I don't know who's beefing. I don't know Oh, control effects and Robin No, Roger Banks is beefing and and that person over there's I don't know who these people are and my life is not even in the place for me to keep up with any of this. So, I need to focus on what's at what's at hand. And this is why I skipped the New York session and I traded in Asia. That's where I was making my little profit in Asia. It was very slow. I became profitable in the Asian markets. Right? Oh, Asia's so slow, it's rangy. It's That's where I became profitable. Asia allowed me to slow down and see whatever it is that I was back testing, whatever it is that I was learning at the time, I can see it happen much slower. And now, that's a market that I can just take these little tiny moves, these little tiny scalps, and and that's where I'm able to pull in whatever money that I can. But, I had to slow down. And slowing down helped me to build character and help me to, you know, be able to be more aware of myself. There were things that I I wish my dad was around cuz I lost him prior to becoming a young adult. There were things that I did not know. Characters issues that that I I had that I would have been able to develop a lot sooner had he been around. There were a lot of different things that while I encountered I had I had to encounter as mistakes. That's how I learn through mistakes. Some things I didn't have to make those mistakes if there was somebody around me being able to place me on the proper path and tell me exactly how it is to approach things, somebody who was trusted. When you have kids, you need to understand that every little thing about them you are responsible for. Right? The good things that happen to them, the bad things that happen to them, at a at a particular age up until a particular age, you are responsible for curating that. You see how they respond with certain kinds of attitudes. You see how they they um you know, try to shortcut their work, they're speeding through it, they won't finish it properly. You You see those little things, and you have to make sure that you are taking out whatever is there that's not good for them and adding whatever is there that's helpful to them. And it's not just yelling at them and being like, "If If Johnny had three apples and he ate one, how many apples does he have? Seven." And you get angry at that. If [snorts] Johnny had You get >> [laughter] >> No, there's clearly a lack there. If you can't solve it, now you have to implore or or look for explore something that will solve it. Get them into tutoring. Allow their screen time to become productive. You know, these these these are all of these different things that you can fix and solve, but people grew up without the presence of those parents because those parents were trying to give them a better life and they had to work. So, there was no oversight. There was no supervision that was there. And just certain things had slipped through the cracks. They weren't able to be taught these things. So, you have to go back after you spend time with learning this, and now it can benefit your life, you have to go back to that kid and restart again. You have to mold that kid into or fix some of those issues that were there. You can't sit there and be like, "Yeah, well, I'm just this way because it's how I've always been. So, just accept it." You know, you can't be like that. You're going to lose a lot of people in life. A lot of good people who are just there to be good to you. They don't even require anything from you. They just love you. You're going to lose a lot of people like that because a lot of that internalized anger that you had or whatever it is that you did not deal with when you were younger, now you carry it as an older adult, and you have to go and fix that child. Why? Because as you get older, I always say it, you are old once, but you are young twice. So, the things that you do not deal with when you are younger, when you become much older, you're going to go right back to that. You're going to You're going to have to face that again. Right? And that's why some people end up having to parent their parents when their parents get older. You have to be their parent now. Because whatever it was that was not solved while they were younger, while they were aging, now those things have come back and now you you have to be the person that has to be mature for them, tell them exactly what to do, have patience with them. They're acting out just like children. And can't understand it, can't see it. It's because they never had the time to stop, stand still, not have to go from situation to situation, to job to job to job. They never had the time to stand still and look back at those things and become aware of themselves. So many people lack self-awareness. Trading is going to teach you self-awareness, don't worry. You keep jumping out, being impulsive, you keep jumping out and and you know, lying to yourself about why you're in a trade. Oh yeah, I took it. It was the plan that was there. Yeah, I followed it. And you know good and well that that was not your plan. You know good and well you never even back-tested this thing. Don't worry, trading is going to put you on your sass, trust me. It's going to knock you on your sass. Software as a service is is is going to knock you on that, right? And you're going to have to respond to that by getting back up and focusing on or or becoming aware of the thing that it's telling you. Stop doing this, do this. Stop doing that, do that. You have a problem with greed. You are too stubborn. You have too much ego, too much pride, right? It's It's going to tell you all of that as you're executing and you have to be able to accept that this is who you are and you need to change. You have to be able to accept that this is not just all about pushing buttons at the right time. That's why you have traders who will amass a fortune and then lose it all after. How do you go up by a hundred million dollars growing up in a poor community, right? Not having everything in life. You worked this hard to get to the peak up there and now you think you control the markets. And guess what? You lose all of it right after. And now you have to use GoFundMe's, all these different things are occurring because the character problem, the self-awareness you never solved. I always say to my mentorship and I'm going to say to you guys, too, that whatever it is that you don't kill up kill on the way up, right? This is character now. This is what we're focusing on. This is character. This is self-awareness. This is where the humility comes in. This is where the boundaries, the ability to stick to the plan and follow it even if it hurts, follow it. What systems are to to There should be no emotion in the system. Yeah, the emotion is tied to the outcome, but the emotion is not the reason why you're entering or exiting. You have to be able to stick to that. And if you can't, you have to remember that as you grow in knowledge and as you learn how to trade and build your account, you trade with more size, you don't solve those problems that are there. What you don't kill on the way up to wherever it is that you are going, right? What you don't kill on the way up is going to be the very thing that kills you on the way down. What you don't kill on the way up is going to kill you on the way down. That's what's going to happen. So, if you don't kill that ego, that pride, that stubbornness, that impulsiveness, that lack of transparency, those lies you are telling yourself or you lying to others. If you don't kill those habits on the way up, those habits are going to be the very thing that kills you on the way down. So, you have to be sure that you are dealing with those things. You're building character as you're building knowledge and as you're building your account. It's very important. It has nothing to do with the system. The system is a system and it will always be the system. You're just following that. If you follow the system, you're going to be, you know, consistent with it. If you do not follow the system, then you need to now focus on why you can't follow it. What is the reason why you keep getting ahead of it? I talked to my mentorship all the time and tell them you have to get down to the root of why you are not able to follow the system that you created, the plan you created. Some people, they were violated when they were younger by people who were supposed to protect them. Some people, they gave themselves they gave the time to people who violated them, to people who hurt them, right? And now they develop this need to be in control, so they want to control every single part of whatever it is that's happening and they can't let go of it. They have to be in control of the outcome and they do all of these different things just to control the outcome, just to try and be right because of all of the stuff that happened in the past, whether they were bullied, whether they were, you know, violated by by your friends, family, whoever it is, partners, right? They they gave them trust and they broke it and now they're in that survival mode. Whatever it is that happened to you, you now live out of a culmination of those experiences, and those experiences that you have had in the past, now that's the way you lead forward because it's you defending or you shielding yourself from how those moments made you feel. You created this defense mechanism that you always have to be right. You have to be perfect. You you there's I had this one friend, and this is the last thing I'm going to say in regards to this psychology part of it. This one friend who whenever I used to try and help him do something, he used to say, "I'm not stupid." And I'm like, "All right, you I Yeah, I did No, what I'm saying I'm not dumb. I know how to do it." And he would be 100% wrong. Strong and wrong about it. And I'm there just trying to help him. I'm trying to find different ways to say it nicely because you know some men they have that that little thing that little ego that's there, you know, ego is important, but you got to know when to shrink it. But ego is important is is for survival, so I don't tell people get rid of it entirely. But you know you have to know how to bring it under under subjection, but this friend would always be "I'm not stupid." Just the littlest things. Just trying to give him a hand, but he's clearly wrong. "I'm not dumb." And I'm like, "I did I didn't say you were." And then when he starts to speak later on, he tells me that from a child he was bullied by his sister, and his parents never did anything. And his dad used to tell him to man up. And his sister used to take the the scarf and and choke him, torture him, humiliate him in front of people. There were all these different things that his sibling used to do to him that he developed this way of of rejecting correction because he needed to show that he knew what he was doing. And he needed to prove himself and that that's the the the kind of childhood he had. Even when we playing video games. You tell him exactly how to do it. I know how to do this. This is not my first time. And then later on he'd be like, "What that this thing is not working. What button did you say it was again? They must have changed it. No, you're lying." But you also are shielding the hurt child that's inside of you. You're shielding that by telling lies and then still trying to learn, but you don't want people to think that they're teaching you anything because you want people to believe that you know everything. You got to bring that down. You got to scale that back. You got to deal with that hurt. Because that's going to control a lot of the decisions and a lot of the relationships you have and and whatever it is that you have to do where you need to rely on yourself, you can't even be honest with yourself because you're still holding on to that pain. And this is something that happened to you as a child. You spend far less years as an adult than you do as an adult. But what you what happens to you as a child it seems to be something that controls your entire adulthood. So go back and fix the child. Go back and fix that part of you. Go back and fix those empty spaces, those voids, the hurt. Go back and heal that. And there's plenty of ways to do it. And that will be something that changes your outlook, changes your mindset on a bunch of different things. But you got to acknowledge that it's there. Some people they they act like it doesn't exist. You got to acknowledge that it's there. It's the first step, acknowledgement. You need to know that all of the issues you have in trading don't necessarily come from trading alone. It comes from things you've been running from in the past. Things that you just put to the back of your mind, repressed emotions or or repressed memories, the situations that occurred you just threw it to the back of your mind and stopped thinking about it because you had to move forward but you never stopped and dealt with it. You got to deal with those things. When you actually learn a system that can work for you. And you guys will learn that here. You will learn the final piece today. It's just on the other side of it when I'm not around, when I'm not present and the you're going through the frustrations of trading the system, I need you to remember that this is something that's still going to plague your trading. This is something that you're still going to deal with.